&gt;&gt; WE ARE GOING TO TRY TO GIVE
THEM THE KIND OF PRIDE AND
BOLDNESS THEY NEED TO
TAKE BACK THE COUNTRY.
&gt;&gt; DONALD JOHN TRUMP, PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES IS
IMPEACHED FOR HIGH CRIMES AND
MISDEMEANORS, ARTICLE 1.
INCITEMENT OF INSURRECTION.
&gt;&gt; MOST REPUBLICANS ARE GOING TO
VIEW THIS AS INCITEMENT UNDER
THE LAW.
&gt;&gt; SEND THERE IS WILL DECIDE ON
THE ONE TRUE QUESTION AT STAKE
IN THIS TRIAL, IS DONALD TRUMP
GUILTY OF INCITING A VIOLENT MOB
AGAINST THE
UNITED STATES?
&gt;&gt; DAY TWO OF THE IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL OF DONALD TRUMP AS HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARGUE THEIR
CASE THAT THE FORMER PRESIDENT
INCITED A MOB TO ATTACK THE US
CAPITAL. BREAKING NEWS THIS
MORNING THAT THEY PLAN
TO SHOW NEW EVIDENCE TODAY
PREVIOUSLY UNSEEN FOOTAGE FROM
INSIDE THE CAPITAL ON JANUARY 6
DURING
THE INSURRECTION. I AM LINDA AND
YOU ARE WATCHING A WASHINGTON
POST TO SPECIAL REPORT. THE POST
HAS LEARNED THE FOOTAGE FROM
SECURITY CAMERAS WILL SHOW HOW
PRECARIOUSLY CLOSE THE MOB CAME
TO MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND THEIR
STAFF. LET'S GET INTO IT WITH
MY GUEST, RHONDA, CAPITOL HILL
REPORTER, JOYCE POLITICAL VIDEO
REPORTER IN JEANS, WASHINGTON
POST COLUMNIST. WELCOME TO
YOU ALL. RHONDA, WHAT IS THE
EXPECTED PUNCH OF THE NEW
FOOTAGE WE WILL SEE TODAY AND
WHAT TO HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS HOPE TO ACHIEVE IN
THEIR ARGUMENTS?
&gt;&gt; WHAT IS EXPECTED TODAY WITH
THIS NEVER BEFORE
SEEN FOOTAGE, IT IS GOING TO BE
COMING FROM SECURITY CAMERAS AND
THAT IS IMPORTANT BECAUSE MOST
OF THE FOOTAGE WE HAVE ALL SEEN
PUBLICLY HAS BEEN SELF ON
FOOTAGE FROM THE WRITERS WHO
POSTED IT ON THEIR SOCIAL MEDIA
AND STAFFERS AND REPORTERS WHO
WERE ABLE TO GET SCENES IN THE
HALLWAYS AND SOME OF THE OFFICES
THAT WERE RANSACKED BUT THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE GOING
TO USE THE SECURITY FOOTAGE TO
SHOW THAT ANGLE TO SHOW THAT
THESE WRITERS, THOSE WHO ARE
PART OF THE INSURRECTION CAME
DANGEROUSLY CLOSE TO MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS, THEIR STAFF AND THE
VICE PRESIDENT WHO WAS HERE WITH
HIS FAMILY THAT THEY ON JANUARY
6. THE HOUSE MANAGERS WANT TO
PICK UP WHERE THEY LEFT OFF
YESTERDAY. YOU SAW THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER SHOWED A
VERY VIVID
MONTAGE CLIP OF SOME OF THE
FOOTAGE FROM THAT DAY FROM
OUTSIDE THE CAPITAL AS WELL AS
INSIDE AND A LOT OF PEOPLE HERE
ARE SAYING THAT THAT
PRESENTATION BY THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WAS REALLY
REALLY CRITICAL. IT WAS VIVID
AND IT BROUGHT BACK THE REASON
WHY EVERYONE IS HERE THIS WEEK
WHICH IS THE WORDS THAT TRUMP
USED LED TO THAT INSURRECTION. I
SUSPECT THE HOUSE MANAGERS
REALLY WANT TO KEEP
THAT GOING. THEY TALKED ABOUT
THAT BEING PART OF THEIR
STRATEGY, THEY WANT TO BRING THE
EMOTION BACK INTO THIS AND I
MAKE IT SO MUCH ABOUT POLITICS
BUT TO APPEAL TO THE SENATORS
THAT THEY ALL WERE UNDER SIEGE
AND IN DANGEROUS SITUATIONS.
&gt;&gt; CHOICE IS LIVE AT THE WHITE
HOUSE TODAY. WHAT ARE WE HEARING
FROM A FORMER PRESIDENT TRUMP
AND HIS TEAM IN REACTION TO
YESTERDAY'S TRIAL
ARGUMENTS?
&gt;&gt; THE FORMER PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS ESPECIALLY BRUCE
CASTOR LEFT A LOT OF PEOPLE
SCRATCHING THEIR HEADS. CASTOR
GAVE A PRETTY
RAMBLING ARGUMENT WHERE HE WAS
TALKING ABOUT THINGS THAT WERE
NOT NECESSARILY PERTAINING TO
THE CONSTITUTIONALITY WHICH IS
WHAT HE WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
ARGUING AGAINST. HE REALLY WENT
INTO A TANGENT AND OFF-TRACK AND
NOT REALLY ARGUING IN DEFENSE OF
TRUMP UNTIL THE VERY END OF HIS
45 MINUTE SPEECH ON THE
SENATE FLOOR. WE HEARD FROM
CASTOR HIMSELF AS WELL AS TRUMP
ADVISORS THAT WERE FAMILIAR WITH
TRUMP'S LEGAL STRATEGY THAT
AFTER HEARING THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS PRESENT
THEIR CASE AS WELL AS THAT
SEVERAL MINUTES LONG VIDEO
SHOWING WHAT HAPPENED DURING
THE INSURRECTION THAT THEY
CHANGED THEIR STRATEGY, THEY
STARTED OFF THIS WAY AS SOME
SORT OF STRATEGY TO WHAT THEY
SAID IS QUOTE LOWER THE
TEMPERATURE BEFORE PRESENTING
THEIR NEXT LAWYER DAVID WHO
PRESENTED A VERY DIFFERENT TONE.
WE KNOW THIS DID NOT GO OVER
WELL WITH MEMBERS OF THE SENATE
BOTH DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS
AS WELL AS TRUMP HIMSELF. THERE
WERE REPORTS THAT HE WAS FURIOUS
AT THE ARGUMENTS THAT CASTOR WAS
MAKING ON THE FLOOR, THAT HE WAS
CONFUSED AS TO WHY HE WAS SAYING
THINGS THAT WERE FAVORABLE TO
HIS OPPONENTS. WE ALSO HEARD
THAT TRUMP'S ADVISORS WERE
UNDERWHELMED BY THE PERFORMANCE.
SOME OF THOSE LAWMAKERS WE HEARD
FROM YESTERDAY IN REACTION TO
CASTOR'S ARGUMENTS, TED CRUZ,
SAYING IT WAS QUOTE NOT
EFFECTIVE. SENATOR LISA SAYING
IT WAS A MISSED OPPORTUNITY FOR
BRUCE CASTOR AND I THINK MOST
NOTABLY SENATOR BILL CASSIDY, A
REPUBLICAN FROM LOUISIANA WHO
SAID HE HAD CHANGED HIS VOTE
AFTER HEARING THIS SHODDY
DEFENSE FROM TRUMP'S LAWYERS. HE
ENDED UP VOTING WITH HIS FIVE
REPUBLICAN COLLEAGUES
, SIDING WITH THE DEMOCRATS ON
THE FACT THAT THIS WAS
CONSTITUTIONAL, THE CASE COULD
CONTINUE WHICH WE SAW WAS THE
RESULT OF YESTERDAY'S FINAL VOTE
ON THE SENATE FLOOR. WE PROBABLY
WON'T HEAR FROM TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS AGAIN UNTIL FRIDAY.
EACH SIDE
HAS ABOUT 16 HOURS TO SPEAK. WE
KNOW THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS PROBABLY WON'T BE
TAKING UP ALL THAT TIME BUT OVER
THE COURSE OF TWO DAYS, IT WILL
BE GIVEN 16 HOURS TO PRESENT
THEIR ARGUMENTS AND JUST TIMING
WISE FRIDAY IS PROBABLY THE NEXT
TIME WE WILL BE HEARING FROM
TRUMP'S ATTORNEYS ON THE FLOOR
AND I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS WE
WILL ALL BE WATCHING FOR IS TO
SEE IF BRUCE CASTOR AGAIN GIVES
A RAMBLING DEFENSE OF TRUMP OR
IF THAT WAS ACTUALLY A STRATEGY
THAT THEY WERE USING AND IF YOU
GIVE SOME SUBSTANTIAL ARGUMENTS
THE NEXT TIME WE HEAR HIM SPEAK.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH.
APPRECIATED THAT. JOYCE WAS JUST
TALKING ABOUT THE DEFENSE
YESTERDAY. WE WILL BE HEARING
MORE FROM THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS TODAY. THAT WILL BE THE
FOCUS BUT LET'S DIG INTO MORE OF
WHAT HAPPENED YESTERDAY BEFORE
WE MOVE FORWARD. THE LEADING
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER GAVE THIS
VERY EMOTIONAL ARGUMENT AND
BRUCE CASTOR HAD TO STAND UP
RIGHT AFTERWARDS AND GIVE THE
COUNTERPOINT. HE SAID EVEN
THOUGH THE EVENTS OF JANUARY 6
WERE HORRIFIC AND PEOPLE SHOULD
FACE CONSEQUENCES
, THE PERSON TO FACE
CONSEQUENCES IS NOT DONALD
TRUMP. LET'S WATCH.
&gt;&gt; YOU WILL NEVER HEAR ANYBODY
REPRESENTING FORMER PRESIDENT
TRUMP SAY ANYTHING AT ALL OTHER
THAN WHAT HAPPENED ON JANUARY 6
AND THE STORMING, BREACHING OF
THE CAPITAL SHOULD BE DENOUNCED
IN THE MOST
VIGOROUS TERMS. NOR THAT THOSE
PERSONS RESPONSIBLE SHOULD BE
PROSECUTED TO THE FULLEST EXTENT
THAT OUR LAWS ALLOW AND I HAVE
FOLLOWED THOSE CASES AND IT
SEEMS TO ME THAT WE ARE DOING A
PRETTY GOOD JOB OF IDENTIFYING
AND PROSECUTING THOSE PERSONS
WHO COMMITTED
THOSE OFFENSES.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS FROM YESTERDAY. LET'S
GO TO JAMES. SO JAMES, JOYCE
ENDED UP REALLY
WELL, REPUBLICANS DID NOT HAVE
MUCH TO HANG ANY SORT OF
ARGUMENT ON BASED ON WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S LAWYERS SAID
YESTERDAY. SO LET'S
TALK ABOUT THE JOB THAT THEY DID
AND WHAT POSITION THAT NOW PUTS
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AND.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY. YESTERDAY WAS
VISCERAL. WE SAW THAT
PRESENTATION FROM CONGRESSMAN
RASKIN WHO JUST THE DAY AFTER
BURYING HIS SON FEARED THAT HE
WOULD LOSE HIS WIFE AND DAUGHTER
IN THE CAPITAL TALKING AT THE
SCENE OF
THE CRIME ABOUT MEMBERS PUTTING
OFF THEIR PAINS SO THEY WOULDN'T
GET ATTACKED BY THE MOB, THAT
INCREDIBLY POWERFUL VIDEO IN
WHICH TRUMP ESSENTIALLY SERVED
AS
THE NARRATOR AND THE POWERFUL
MISS OF THAT, THE VISCERAL MISS
OF THAT REALLY WAS JUST SUCH A
STARK CONTRAST WITH WHAT
FOLLOWED. CASTOR'S SPEECH WAS
RAMBLING, SHOWING GAVE A
TRUMP REMARK. HE SPOKE FOR ABOUT
20 MINUTES LONGER THAN THE FIRST
TRUMP DEFENSE ATTORNEY AND HE
OFFERED A SERIES OF LEGITIMATE
PROCEDURAL ARGUMENTS,
CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENTS SAYING
THAT YOU SHOULDN'T TRY A FORMER
PRESIDENT. ULTIMATELY AND A
PRETTY SIGNIFICANT VOTE,
SIX REPUBLICANS VOTED TO MOVE
AHEAD WITH
THE TRIAL. IF THAT PACE
CONTINUES, THIS WILL BE THE MOST
BIPARTISAN IMPEACHMENT IN
AMERICAN HISTORY. OUR COLLEAGUES
MENTIONED BILL CASSIDY FROM
LOUISIANA, THE WHOLE IDEA OF
YESTERDAY, THE WHOLE REASON
THAT REPUBLICANS LEADERS, MITCH
McCONNELL AND TRUMP'S ATTORNEYS
NEGOTIATED TO HAVE THIS FIRST
DAY TO
FOCUS ON WHETHER OR NOT THE
TRIAL WAS EVEN CONSTITUTIONAL
WAS ABOUT GIVING PROCEDURAL
EXCUSES AND JUSTIFICATIONS FOR
REPUBLICANS TO VOTE AGAINST
IMPEACHMENT. THE FACT THAT THE
TRUMP LAWYERS DID SO POORLY IN
THE TRUMP TEAM
FREELY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THEY
DID A TERRIBLE JOB. SEAN HANNITY
WERE PENNING THEIR PERFORMANCE
LAST NIGHT. THAT MAKES IT HARDER
FOR SOME OF THESE SENATE
REPUBLICANS TO USE THOSE
PROCEDURAL EXCUSES TO JUSTIFY
NOT CONDONING OR CONDEMNING
TRUMPS BEHAVIOR THAT LED
DIRECTLY TO THE RIGHT. SO THAT
IS WHY YESTERDAY WAS SO
SIGNIFICANT BECAUSE IT UNDERCUTS
SOMETHING THAT A LOT OF
REPUBLICANS HAD BEEN HOPING TO
HANG THEIR HAT ON THAT IS NOT
THERE FOR THEM NOW AND IT IS
GOING TO PUT THEM IN A TRICKIER
POSITION ESPECIALLY AS WE GET
INTO THE MEAT OF THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS CASE LATER
TODAY.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, IT IS MORE BENIGN TO
ARGUE ABOUT CONSTITUTIONALITY
THAN IT IS TO ARGUE ABOUT THE
HORRIFIC EVENTS OF JANUARY 6 AND
THE PRESIDENTS DIRECT OR
INDIRECT ROLE IN THAT. SO
YESTERDAY WAS REALLY
THE OPPORTUNITY AS YOU STATE FOR
THE REPUBLICANS TO SAY LOOK I'M
NOT EVEN GOING TO SUPPORT THIS
MOVING FORWARD, BUT EVEN THOUGH
WE SAW SIX OF THEM CROSS OVER TO
GO WITH THE DEMOCRATS, SO MANY
OF THEM, ALL THE REST OF THEM
STILL SAID THEY BELIEVE THIS IS
UNCONSTITUTIONAL. WHAT DOES THAT
TELL US ABOUT THEIR FRAME OF
MIND AND HOW OPEN OR FRANKLY NOT
OPEN THEY ARE TO REALLY
LISTENING TO THE ARGUMENTS
BEFORE THEM?
&gt;&gt; YES ANY REAL TRIAL, THE
JURORS ARE REQUIRED TO BE
IMPARTIAL. IMPEACHMENTS BY
DEFINITION ARE
POLITICAL TRIALS. THE TRUMP TEAM
KNOWS THAT TO WIN, THEY JUST
NEED TO CONVINCE 34 REPUBLICANS
TO NOT AFFECT FROM THE
PRESIDENT. YOU SAW THE LOUISIANA
REPUBLICAN PARTY PUT OUT A VERY
STRONGLY WORDED STATEMENT
ATTACKING BILL CASSIDY, THEIR
STATE SENIOR SENATOR AFTER HE
VOTED TO ALLOW THE TRIAL TO GO
FORWARD AND I THINK THAT ELEMENT
IS REALLY IMPORTANT, THE FEAR
THAT A LOT OF
THESE REPUBLICANS FEEL. THEY
WERE THERE, EVERY ONE OF THEM
WAS THERE ON JANUARY 6. ALL OF
THEM HAD TO EVACUATE. THEY ALL
HAVE THEIR OWN STORIES AND THEY
DON'T WANT TO GRAPPLE WITH WHAT
HAPPENS. THEY DON'T WANT TO RISK
THEIR POLITICAL CAREERS IN MANY
CASES TO PUNISH SOMEONE WHO IS
NO LONGER IN OFFICE AND TO THE
BASE OF THE PARTY
STILL LOVES. THERE WERE THREE
NEW POLLS THAT CAME OUT IN THE
LAST 24 HOURS ABOUT IMPEACHMENT,
AND ALL OF THEM SHOW THAT NO
MORE THAN 60% OF AMERICANS
SUPPORT REMOVING TRUMP OR
CONVICTING TRUMP TO PREVENT HIM
FROM RUNNING AGAIN. IT IS REALLY
PRETTY SIMILAR TO WHAT THE
NUMBERS WERE IN THE POLLS AT
THIS STAGE OF THE TRIAL LAST
YEAR. SO A LOT OF REPUBLICANS
STILL STICKING WITH TRUMP EVEN
IF THEY DISAPPROVE OF THE WAY HE
HANDLED THIS WHOLE AFFAIR, EVEN
IF THEY BELIEVE HE IS
RESPONSIBLE FOR IT, AND YOU SAW
THAT 13 MINUTE VIDEO THAT WAS SO
POWERFUL THAT THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS PLAYED
DURING THEIR OPENING CASE
YESTERDAY. OUR REPORTER WHO WAS
IN THE SENATE CHAMBER SAID A LOT
OF THE REPUBLICAN SENATORS WERE
PHYSICALLY LOOKING AWAY SO THEY
DIDN'T HAVE TO WATCH
THE VIDEO. THEY WERE LOOKING AT
BLANK PIECES OF PAPER. THEY WERE
DRAWING DOODLES AND LOOKING AT
EACH OTHER BUT THEY WERE TRYING
NOT TO ENGAGE WITH WHAT ACTUALLY
HAPPENED. THAT IS THEIR STRATEGY
AND ULTIMATELY, I THINK THEY
HOPE THAT PEOPLE JUST SORT OF
WILL MOVE ON AND IT WAS SORT OF
IRONIC BECAUSE WE HEARD TRUMPS
LAWYER ARGUED THAT IT WAS UNFAIR
TO PLAY THAT VIDEO. WE JUST
HEARD IN THAT CLIP THAT YOU JUST
PLAYED HIM SAYING WE STIPULATE
THAT THE RIGHT
WAS TERRIBLE. IT SORT OF FELT
IRONIC TO HAVE A LAWYER FOR THE
REALITY TELEVISION PRESIDENT WHO
IS ALL ABOUT MADE FOR TV DRAMA
CRITICIZING THE OTHER SIDE FOR
PUTTING TOGETHER A REALLY
COMPELLING VISUAL CASE AGAINST
HIM.
&gt;&gt; YES. JAMES, ALSO THE ATTORNEY
ADMITTING THAT TRUMP DIDN'T WIN
THE ELECTION WHICH IS FACTUAL
BUT
WAS STILL SHOCKING TO HEAR OUT
OF THE MOUTHS OF A LAWYER
WORKING FOR PRESIDENT TRUMP.
LET'S TALK TO RUNNER TO TALK
ABOUT SENATOR BILL CASSIDY AND
HIS DECISION TO VOTE THAT THIS
PROCESS IS CONSTITUTIONAL. WHAT
JUSTIFICATION DID HE GIVE TO
THAT AND WHAT INSIGHT DOES THAT
GIVE YOU?
&gt;&gt; THE INDICATION HE DID GIVE
ABOUT HIS VOTE IS HE SAID THAT
BRUCE CASTOR'S ARGUMENT ABOUT
THIS BEING UNCONSTITUTIONAL WAS
DISORGANIZED. IT WAS PRETTY
CRITICAL ABOUT TRUMP'S LAWYERS
AND THEIR
ARGUMENT YESTERDAY FOR THIS NOT
BEING CONSTITUTIONAL. SO WHAT
THIS DOES SHOW IS THERE IS A
LITTLE BIT OF ROOM FOR DEFECTION
AND WE ARE SEEING SOME
REPUBLICANS, CASSIDY FOR
INSTANCE AND THE OTHER FIVE
REPUBLICANS WHO JOINED DEMOCRATS
TO SAY IT WAS CONSTITUTIONAL,
THEY ARE GOING INTO THIS BEING
THE IMPARTIAL JURORS THAT THEY
ARE SUPPOSED TO BE. THEY SIGN AN
OATH ACTUALLY RIGHT AFTER THE
ARTICLE IS BROUGHT INTO THE
SENATE CHAMBER, THEY SIGN IN AN
OATH BUT THAT THEY WILL BE
JURORS AND IMPARTIAL. I THINK HE
IS SHOWCASING THAT AUNTIE IS
DOING IT AT SOME POLITICAL RISK
TO HIMSELF. AS JAMES MENTIONED,
HIS CONSTITUENTS THERE HAVEN'T
BEEN HAPPY WITH HIS DECISION
LAST NIGHT AND I THINK A LOT OF
REPUBLICANS ARE ALSO THINKING
THAT AS THEIR FOREMOST PRIORITY
IN THIS IMPEACHMENT TRIAL. WILL
THIS HURT THEM AND THEIR
REELECTION CHANCES? FEW OF THEM
ARE UP FOR REELECTION IN 2022 SO
THAT IS JUST AROUND THE CORNER
SO THEY ARE THINKING ABOUT THAT
AND THERE IS PERSONAL DANGER
ALSO. SOME REPUBLICAN LAWMAKERS
RECEIVED ALL SORTS OF CALLS AND
DEATH THREATS. IT WAS A VIDEO OF
LINDSEY GRAHAM WHEN HE WENT TO
CATCH HIS FLIGHT IF YOU DAYS
AFTER THE SIXTH TO GO BACK HOME
TO SOUTH CAROLINA. HE WAS MET BY
A SMALL MOB AT THE DC AIRPORT
WHO TOLD HIM THAT HE WAS A
TRAITOR. THAT IS ALSO A PART OF
THIS IS THERE IS A PERSONAL
DANGER UNFORTUNATELY AS A PART
OF MAKING THESE TYPES OF
DECISIONS AS A REPUBLICAN IF YOU
ARE GOING TO SUPPORT TRUMP OR
NOT.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO NOW TO PAUL, SENIOR
CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT. IT
IS SO GOOD TO
SEE YOU. I JUST WANT TO START
WITH THE BASICS OF WHAT WE SAW
FROM BOTH SIDES. WE HAD THIS
CONTRAST OF EMOTION ON ONE PART
AS WELL AS TAKING THROUGH THE
ARGUMENTS
OF CONSTITUTIONALITY BY THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, THE
DEMOCRATS AND THEN WE SAW ON THE
BEHALF OF THE DEFENSE TEAM A
DISTRACTION IN THE FORM OF BRUCE
CASTOR AND THEN JUST DENIAL AND
ALSO ANGER ON THE PART OF THE
OTHER ATTORNEY, DAVID. SO ARE
THE STRATEGIES WORKING?
&gt;&gt; YES AND NO. ON THE ONE HAND,
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WALKED
OUT YESTERDAY WITH AN
UNBELIEVABLY CLEAR AND
CONVINCING WHEN. EVERYBODY SAID
THEIR CASE WAS SHARP BOTH
LEGALLY AND EMOTIONALLY. THEY
CONNECTED EVERYTHING FROM RIGHT
AFTER THE ELECTION ALL THE WAY
UP TO JANUARY
6 AND IN TRUMP'S OWN SPEECH THAT
DAY AND WHAT HAPPENED AFTER
TRUMPS SPEECH, THEY HIT ON EVERY
POSSIBLE LEVEL. THE DEFENSE,
THEY DID NOT. THE BEST WAY TO
TRY AND
POSSIBLY DESCRIBE THEIR EFFORTS
WAS THAT BRUCE CASTOR WAS TRYING
TO PLAY THE GOOD COP AND HE WAS
TRYING TO BE COMPLEMENTARY TO
SENATORS AND SUCK UP TO THEM.
INSTEAD IT WAS KIND OF
MEANDERING AND AS RHONDA WAS
JUST POINTING OUT, EVEN BILL
CASSIDY PRETTY MUCH CAME OUT AND
SAID IT WAS CLEAR CUT ONE SIDE
HAD THE BETTER CASE. NOW ALL
THAT BEING SAID LIBBY, THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS COULD NOT
HAVE HAD A BETTER DAY AND ALL
THEY SWITCHED WAS ONE SINGLE
VOTE, BILL CASSIDY'S. SO THAT
GETS YOU 256. THAT IS 11 SHORT
OF 67. YOU NOW HAD TWO
PROCEDURAL VOTES ON THIS MATTER
AND 44 REPUBLICANS HAVE NOW
VOTED TWICE THAT THIS IS AN
UNCONSTITUTIONAL CASE. IT IS
REALLY HARD TO SEE ONCE HE VOTED
TWICE THAT THIS THING IS
UNCONSTITUTIONAL, IT IS REALLY
HARD TO SEE HOW YOU ARE GOING TO
TURN AROUND AND VOTE A VOTE
DIFFERENTLY. IT IS A REALLY
REALLY STEEP CLIMB FOR HOUSE
MANAGERS, AND THEY HAD A GOOD
DAY
AS THEY COULD'VE POSSIBLY HAD
AND YET THEY ONLY CHANGED ONE
MIND, ONE VOTE.
&gt;&gt; IT WILL BE INTERESTING TO SEE
WHAT THE REACTION IS TO BILL
CASSIDY. WE HEARD FROM JAMES HE
IS GETTING CRITICIZED BACK HOME
IN LOUISIANA. IT WILL BE
INTERESTING TO SEE WHAT KIND OF
TRIAL BALLOON THAT IS FOR THE
REST OF THE SENATORS TO SEE AT
THIS POINT IN THE PROCEEDINGS IF
YOU DO TAKE A VOTE EVEN ON A
PROCEDURAL MOVE ESSENTIALLY OVER
THE NEXT DAYS, DOES
THAT IMPACT YOUR STANDING BACK
HOME? IS THERE A CHANCE OF MORE
REPUBLICAN DEFECTIONS GIVEN WHAT
YOU JUST LAID OUT FOR US?
&gt;&gt; IT IS HARD TO SEE AND THERE
IS A GROUP OF THEM, PEOPLE THAT
YOU WOULD NORMALLY
THINK OF AS SORT OF CENTRIST,
SORT OF AT LEAST INSTITUTIONAL
TYPE OF REPUBLICANS WHO MIGHT BE
WILLING TO CONSIDER A VOTE ON
THIS ISSUE BECAUSE OF THE ATTACK
ON CONGRESS AS
AN INSTITUTION BUT THOSE ARE
FOLKS THAT ARE UP FOR REELECTION
IN 2022, PEOPLE LIKE ROY BLUNT,
JERRY OF KANSAS AND IT IS REALLY
HARD TO ENVISION TAKING A VOTE
LIKE THIS IF YOU ARE IN A
CONSERVATIVE LEANING STATE AND
YOUR BIGGEST FEAR IS A PRIMARY
CHALLENGE FROM THE SORT OF TRUMP
RIGHT-WING OF FAR RIGHT WING OF
YOUR VOTER BASE, THIS IS A VOTE
THAT PEOPLE
WILL REMEMBER. BILL CASSIDY HAS
THE FREEDOM BECAUSE HE JUST WON
REELECTION. HE
EASILY WON, HIS NEAREST
DEMOCRATIC OPPONENT WAS 40
POINTS
BEHIND HIM AND HE HAS SIX FULL
YEARS BEFORE HE HAS TO FACE THE
VOTERS IN LOUISIANA AGAIN. HE
HAS MORE FREEDOM THAN THESE
OTHER FOLKS. SO IT IS JUST
REALLY HARD BOTH ON POLITICS AND
THE PROCESS NOW THAT YOU HAVE
HAD THESE TWO VOTES THAT ARE
REALLY STARTING TO BACON WHERE
THE WHOLE FIELD ESSENTIALLY, THE
JURY BUYS -- LIES.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO PLAY YOU
A CLIP BY ONE OF THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS AND HE RECOUNTED HIS
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE GETTING
CONCERNED TEXTS FROM HIS FAMILY
ON JANUARY 6. SO LET'S WATCH
THAT.
&gt;&gt; HONESTLY, IT IS HARD TO
IMAGINE A CLEARER EXAMPLE OF HOW
A PRESIDENT COULD ABUSE
HIS OFFICE, INCITING VIOLENCE
AGAINST A COEQUAL BRANCH OF
GOVERNMENT WHILE SEEKING TO
REMAIN IN POWER AFTER LOSING AN
ELECTION. SITTING BACK AND
WATCHING IT UNFOLD. WE ALL KNOW
THE CONSEQUENCES. LIKE EVERY ONE
OF YOU, I WAS IN THE CAPITAL ON
JANUARY 6. I WAS ON
THE FLOOR. LIKE EVERY ONE OF
YOU, I WAS EVACUATED AS THIS
VIOLENT MOB STORMED THE
CAPITALS GATES. WHAT YOU
EXPERIENCED THAT DAY, WHAT WE
EXPERIENCED THAT DAY, WHAT OUR
COUNTRY EXPERIENCED
THAT DAY IS THE FRAMERS WORST
NIGHTMARE COME
TO LIFE. PRESIDENTS CANNOT
INFLAME INSURRECTION IN THEIR
FINAL WEEKS AND THEN WALK AWAY
LIKE NOTHING HAPPENED.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE REPORTED ON JONAH'S
RISE IN POPULARITY
AND PROMINENCE, HOW DID THE
CAUCUS REACTS TO HIS OPENING-DAY
REMARKS?
&gt;&gt;
SO JONAH IS PART OF THAT
HISTORIC DEMOCRATIC CLASS
OF 2018 THAT'S WHAT NANCY PELOSI
BACK INTO THE SPEAKER'S CHAIR
AND GIVE THE DEMOCRATS THE
MAJORITY. HE IS NOT, HE DOESN'T
HAVE THE PROFILE OF ALEXANDRIA
OR SOME OF THE MODERATES WHO WON
THESE RED DISTRICTS, BUT HE IS
WITHOUT QUESTION THE REAL RISING
STAR OF THAT CLASS OF 2018. HE
HAS ONE A LEADERSHIP POSITION
AFTER JUST TWO YEARS ON
BASICALLY UNCHALLENGED. NANCY
PELOSI APPOINTED HIM
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER AT THE RIPE
OLD AGE OF 36. HE IS THE
YOUNGEST IMPEACHMENT MANAGER
EVER TO APPEAR BEFORE THE SENATE
IN AN IMPEACHMENT TRIAL. HIS
PRESENTATION ODDLY ENOUGH AS THE
YOUNGEST ONE AND THE ONE WHO WAS
IN THE CONSTITUTIONAL SCHOLAR
THE WAY
JAMIE IS, HE WAS THE ONE WHO
REALLY WENT THROUGH AND JUST
HAMMERED AWAY AT THE
CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT AND A
REALLY THOROUGH
WAY AND HE IS JUST A REALLY
REALLY IMPRESSIVE FIGURE. HE HAS
A LOT OF UPSIDE IN A
SPORTS METAPHOR IN TERMS OF A
MEMBER WHO COULD GO REALLY FAR
IN LEADERSHIP.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO BRING RHONDA BACK
INTO THE CONVERSATION. LET'S
TALK ABOUT THE ARGUMENTS OF
CONSTITUTIONALITY BECAUSE AS
PAUL POINTS OUT, THAT WAS REALLY
A STRONG FOCUS OF CONGRESSMAN --
ARGUMENTS YESTERDAY. WE DIDN'T
REALLY HEAR A STRONG DISMANTLING
FROM THE DEFENSE TEAM AND WE
HAVE TALKED ABOUT THE RAMBLING
ISSUES AND THE LACK OF FOCUS BUT
THEY DID NOT HAVE THIS SORT OF
POINT BY POINT DISMANTLING OF
THE POINTS WE JUST HEARD FROM
CONGRESSMAN NEGUS.
&gt;&gt; THEY REALLY DIDN'T AND IT WAS
A HARD THING FOR THEM TO REBUT
COMING AFTER THE HOUSE MANAGERS
WHO HAD A VERY
LINEAR PRESENTATION. THEY
STARTED WITH THE FRAMERS
THINKING IN THE CONSTITUTION.
THEY TALKED ABOUT THE PRECEDENT
OF A FORMER
WAR SECRETARY WHO WENT THROUGH
AN IMPEACHMENT TRIAL AFTER HE
HAD ALREADY RESIGNED SO THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS LAID
IT ALL OUT IN TERMS THAT WERE
VERY UNDERSTANDABLE AND I THINK
ONE OF THE IMPORTANT THINGS
ABOUT YESTERDAY IS WITH BRUCE
CASTOR BEING CRITICIZED
FOR RAMBLING AND SUCH, HE DID
POINT OUT HIMSELF THAT THEY
CHANGED UP THEIR STRATEGY AFTER
THEY HEARD THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS GO THROUGH THEIR
PRESENTATION AND IN FACT CASTOR
SAID THEY GAVE A GOOD
PRESENTATION. I THINK IT WAS
HARD FOR THEM TO COME AFTER THAT
AND REALLY IT IS INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT BECAUSE HOUSE AND
SENATE REPUBLICANS AS WELL AS
TRUMPS LEGAL TEAM HAVE ALL BEEN
SAYING THAT THE
CONSTITUTIONALITY WOULD BE THERE
CORE ARGUMENT IN THIS ENTIRE
IMPEACHMENT, THAT IS WHAT THEY
WERE GOING TO GO AFTER AND NOW
THAT THE SENATE HAS HAD A VOTE
SAYING THIS IS CONSTITUTIONAL,
HAD THE JURISDICTION TO GO AHEAD
AND MOVE FORWARD, THAT DOES MAKE
THE ARGUMENTS FOR TRUMPS SIDE
HARDER. ANOTHER POINT I WANT TO
BRING UP IS THAT WE TALKED ABOUT
YESTERDAY'S VOTE IN TERMS OF
JUST THING ABOUT
THE CONSTITUTIONALITY. WE HAVE
HAD THE ONE EXTRA DEFECTION OF
BILL CASSIDY JOINING DEMOCRATS
TO SAY IT WAS CONSTITUTIONAL BUT
THAT DOESN'T NECESSARILY
MEAN THAT ALL SENATE REPUBLICANS
WILL VOTE IN THE SAME WAY WHEN
IT COMES TO THE CONVICTION OR
ACQUITTAL VOTE. THOSE ARE TWO
SEPARATE VOTES THAT PEOPLE AT
HOME TO KNOW THAT YESTERDAY MAY
HAVE BEEN A LITTLE BIT OF A
TEST. IT MAY GIVE US SOME SORT
OF EARLY INDICATION OF
REPUBLICAN THINKING BUT IT IS
ALSO SEPARATE FROM THE EVENTUAL
VOTE TO QUIT OR ACQUITTAL DONALD
TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO BRING THAT BACK TO
PK. PEOPLE INCLUDING THE TOP
REPUBLICAN, MITCH McCONNELL,
HAVE LEFT THE DOOR OPEN NOT JUST
TO OTHER MEMBERS BUT HE HAS NOT
CLOSED THE DOOR ON VOTING TO
IMPEACH. AS RHONDA POINTS OUT
THESE ARE TWO SEPARATE VOTES. I
WANT TO PUSH YOU ONE MORE TIME
ON THE POTENTIAL, THE
POSSIBILITY FOR REPUBLICANS
COMING OVER.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT WHAT THE
MANAGERS WILL
NEW, SOMETHING THAT WILL BE
EITHER WITH SOME OF THE
PRESENTATION WE ARE GOING TO SEE
TODAY. THEY ARE GOING TO
BE USING SOME OF THE ADVISORS
HAVE BEEN SAYING THEY'RE GOING
TO USE SECURITY FOOTAGE THAT WE
HAVE NOT EVER SEEN BEFORE. MAYBE
THAT WILL SWAY SOME MINDS.
OTHERWISE, I THINK WHAT THEY
REALLY NEED ARE WITNESSES WHO
WERE WITH DONALD TRUMP AND THAT
WILL BE ABLE TO
SAY DEFINITIVELY OH HE KNEW THIS
WAS GOING TO HAPPEN. HE SAID HE
HOPED THAT THIS WOULD HAPPEN,
SOMETHING NEW THAT PUTS YOU IN
TRUMPS MINDSET THAT WOULD PUSH
REPUBLICANS. I THINK THAT IS
WHAT THEY NEED TO DO IN ORDER TO
REALLY SWITCH THE VOTES OF
PEOPLE LIKE MITCH McCONNELL AND
REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP AND I JUST
DON'T KNOW THAT THE DEMOCRATS
ARE WILLING TO TAKE THE TIME TO
DO THAT, TO GET THAT SORT OF
TESTIMONY, YOU ESSENTIALLY HAVE
TO PAUSE THE TRIAL, ISSUE A
BUNCH OF SUBPOENAS, TRY TO GET
BACK SOME TESTIMONY AND COME
BACK IN A MATTER OF WEEKS OR SO,
AND THAT WOULD REALLY EXTEND THE
TRIAL OF THE DEMOCRATIC
LEADERSHIP HAS NOT SIGNALED A
REAL INTEREST IN DOING SOMETHING
LIKE THAT BECAUSE THEY WANT TO
GET ON WITH THE NEW
ADMINISTRATION'S AGENDA. SO THEY
ARE GOING TO MOVE AS QUICKLY AS
THEY ARE TALKING ABOUT, WRAPPING
UP THE TRIAL BY THE END OF THE
WEEKEND, YOU ARE REALLY LOOKING
AT PRETTY MUCH A SIMILAR REPLAY
VOTE MAY BE ONE OR TWO SHIFT BUT
TO GET ALL THE WAY TO 67, YOU
ARE GOING TO NEED SOME SORT OF
PERRY MASON MOMENT THAT CHANGES
THINGS THAT CAN CAUSE 11
SENATORS TO BREAK FROM HOW THEY
HAVE ALREADY VOTED. IT IS JUST
REALLY HARD FOR A SENATOR TO GO
AHEAD AND VOTE FOR SOMETHING OR
AGAINST SOMETHING AND TURNAROUND
FIVE DAYS LATER AND VOTE FOR IT.
YOU NEED
A BIG SEACHANGE, SOMETHING THAT
WOULD PERSUADE THEIR MINDS.
&gt;&gt; IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT
WITNESSES CLOSE TO
DONALD TRUMP PAUL COULD ALSO
TESTIFY TO WHAT HE DID THAT DAY
AND WHAT HIS STATE OF MIND WAS
THAT DAY AFTER THE ATTACK HAD
ALREADY STARTED BECAUSE THERE
WAS THAT HUGE DELAY. THERE WAS A
DELAY IN HOW PRESIDENT TRUMP
REACTED AND HAVING HIM CALL FOR
PEOPLE TO STAND DOWN. ALSO
CONFUSION AND DELAY IN GETTING
NATIONAL GUARD TROOPS DEPLOYED
OR ANY SORT OF NATIONAL
MOBILIZED REACTION SO THAT IS
ALSO A CRUCIAL PIECE OF
INFORMATION. WE JUST DON'T HAVE
THE INSIGHT ON PAPER. WE TALKED
TO PEOPLE WITH BACKGROUND OF THE
WASHINGTON POST AND OTHER NEWS
OUTLETS BUT NOT PUTTING A NAME
AND FACE AND STANDING UP AND
RAISING THEIR HANDS AND
TESTIFYING TO WHAT THEY SAW. ONE
LAST THING I WANT TO TALK TO
ABOUT, THE VIDEO YESTERDAY, THE
13 MINUTE VIDEO THAT IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS PLAYED WAS REALLY HARD
TO WATCH.
I WANT TO KNOW HOW YOU AND THE
CAPITOL HILL PRESS CORPS ARE
DOING IN THIS MOMENT OF HAVING
TO COVER THIS STORY THAT HAS SO
PERSONALLY IMPACTED EVERYONE AS
WELL?
&gt;&gt; I LIVE DID THAT DAY. I WAS
THERE. WATCHING
THAT PRESENTATION, IT IS
SOMEWHAT JARRING. IT BRINGS YOU
BACK TO THAT DAY, THAT MOMENT. I
KNOW
SOMEBODY WHO, THERE WAS A SPLIT
SECOND IN THAT VIDEO WHERE THEY
WERE WALKING CALLS AND BANGING
ON DOORS AND SHE FIGURED OUT
THAT THAT WAS THE DOOR THAT A
GROUP OF PEOPLE WERE HIDING
BEHIND. IT IS A
JARRING THING, WATCHING ALL OF
THIS UNFOLD AND IT WILL BE
AGAIN TODAY. THERE IS A CONCERN
ON ONE AND FOR ME THAT THIS
WHOLE TRIAL GOES THROUGH AND IN
FOUR OR FIVE DAYS THE WAY THEY
ARE RACING THROUGH IT, THE ONLY
IMPACT MIGHT BE TO INFLICT MORE
TRAUMA ON THOSE WHO WERE THERE.
ESPECIALLY THE CAPITAL POLICE
AND GIVEN WHAT THEY ARE
PREVIEWING TO REPORTERS, I THINK
A LOT OF TODAY'S FOOTAGE IS
GOING TO BE PRETTY HARD ON
CAPITAL POLICE WHO WERE AND
LITERALLY HAND TO HAND COMBAT
WITH AN INVADING FORCE ON
JANUARY 6. SO I HOPE AND PRAY
THAT THEY ARE GETTING THE HELP
THAT THEY NEED BOTH PHYSICALLY
AND EMOTIONALLY TO RECOVER FROM
IT ALL.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR TALKING
WITH US. APPRECIATE YOUR TIME.
LET'S GO TO JAMES. THERE IS A
QUESTION OF HOW VISCERAL THIS
COULD BE MADE FOR THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC BECAUSE WHILE THE
SENATORS ARE THE JURY HERE, THIS
IS ALSO ON TRIAL IN AMERICA'S
HOMES, ON THEIR PHONES AND
LAPTOPS AND TELEVISIONS AS THEY
PIECE TOGETHER THE TIMELINE AND
WHAT HAPPENED. SO
I WONDER HOW MUCH THAT IS ON THE
MIND OF THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
AND HOW THEY HAVE TO, MAKE IT
THIS TO A BROADER AUDIENCE AS
WELL.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY AND WHEN YOU TALK
TO THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS,
THEY ARE PRIMARILY PLAYING AN
OUTSIDE GAME. THEY WOULD LOVE TO
HAVE A MOMENT, A PERRY MASON
MOMENT THAT PERSUADES REPUBLICAN
SENATORS TO ALL OF A SUDDEN
SHAKE
THEIR ALLEGIANCE TO DONALD TRUMP
BUT THEY ARE REALISTIC AND
PRAGMATIC. THEY DO THINK THAT A
PERRY MASON MOMENT AS PAUL PUT
IT WOULD HELP WITH THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE THAT IT REALLY COULD MOVE
PUBLIC OPINION AND THAT
REPUBLICAN SENATORS WOULD BE
RESPONSIVE TO THAT SHIFT IN
PUBLIC OPINION. YOUR POINT IS A
GOOD ONE THAT WE DON'T HAVE
WITNESSES BUT WE DO HAVE
REPORTING. WE HAVE TALKED TO
PEOPLE AT THE WHITE HOUSE THAT
THEY WERE HORRIFIED BY TRUMP
REFUSING TO WEIGH IN FOUR HOURS
AS THE MOB SACKED THE CAPITAL
AND
IN FACT, SEVERAL OF THE
SENATORS, THE REPUBLICAN
SENATORS COULD BE WITNESSES.
THIS IS NOT ONLY THE SCENE OF
THE CRIME BUT THEY WERE PEOPLE
WHO WERE CALLING TRUMP THAT DAY
TRYING TO GET HIM TO SEND HELP
AND TRUMP WASN'T TAKING THEIR
CALLS. INSTEAD WE KNOW FROM
REPORTING, HE WAS AT THE WHITE
HOUSE ENJOYING THE SHOW ON CABLE
NEWS AND THE NATIONAL GUARD WAS
NOT DEPLOYING.
&gt;&gt; THERE WAS ALSO THE INCIDENT
WITH THE PRESIDENT CALLED MIKE
LEE TRYING TO REACH THE NEW
SENATOR FROM ALABAMA. IN THE
MIDDLE OF THIS CHAOS AND NOT TO
COME THINGS BUT TO
TALK ABOUT RETURNING THE
ELECTION.
&gt;&gt; AND TRY TO PREVENT THEM FROM
COMING BACK THAT NIGHT.
OBVIOUSLY IT WAS SUCH AN
IMPORTANT THING FOR THE COUNTRY
FOR THE PROCEEDINGS TO CONTINUE
THAT NIGHT FOR THE ELECTION TO
BE CERTIFIED, THAT IS A DATE
JANUARY 6 THAT IS SET IN STONE
IN THE CONSTITUTION. TRUMP
LITERALLY WAS CALLING TO REACH
TOMMY TO TELL HIM, TRY TO BLOCK
THIS FROM HAPPENING TONIGHT.
LET'S POSTPONE IT AND MAYBE WE
CAN HAVE MORE PRESSURE COME BACK
AND ON THE SAME VEIN AS THAT,
ELAINE WHO WAS THE
TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY, THE
WIFE OF MITCH McCONNELL RESIGNED
IN PROTEST AFTER THIS INCIDENT
ON JANUARY 6 BECAUSE SHE WAS SO
DISTRAUGHT BY TRUMP'S HANDLING
OF IT AND TRUMPS INTENTIONAL
DELAY TACTICS. SO IT HAS BEEN
INTERESTING OVER THE LAST COUPLE
OF WEEKS BECAUSE INITIALLY YOU
DID SEE SEVERAL SENATORS BLAME
TRUMP FOR WHAT HAPPENED
INCLUDING LINDSEY GRAHAM AND
MITCH McCONNELL. ON THE HOUSE
SIDE, YOU HEARD McCARTHY SAY
TRUMP
DESERVES BLAME AND TRIBALISM IS
REALLY THE BEST THING GOING FOR
DONALD TRUMP WHICH IS THE TRIBAL
INSTINCTS KICKED IN AND YOU HAVE
SEEN SEVERAL SENATORS THAT WERE
PRETTY HARD ON TRUMP A MONTH AGO
HAVE WALKED BACK THEIR COMMENTS.
KEVIN McCARTHY WAS ASKED ABOUT
SAYING TRUMP DESERVES BLAME AND
HE SAID WILL EVERYONE IN AMERICA
DESERVES BLAME WHICH IS AN
ILLUSTRATION OF SORT OF THESE
POLITICIANS WITH THEIR FINGERS
IN THE WIND REACTING TO WHERE
THE BASE OF THEIR
PARTY REMAINS.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL STAY WITH YOU. MUCH
OF THIS IMPEACHMENT TRIAL IS
UNPRECEDENTED. WE CAN STILL
LEARN RATHER FROM HISTORY. LET'S
GO TO MY COLLEAGUE AND
PRESIDENTIAL EXPERT LILLIAN
CUNNINGHAM FOR A LITTLE
PERSPECTIVE.
&gt;&gt; I AM THE CREATOR AND HOST OF
THE PRESIDENTIAL PODCAST.
&gt;&gt; WHAT IS THE POINT OF HOLDING
AN IMPEACHMENT TRIAL FOR SOMEONE
WHO IS ALREADY LEFT OFFICE? THE
CONSTITUTION STATES
THAT IMPEACHMENT CAN LEAD EITHER
TO SOMEONE'S REMOVAL FROM OFFICE
WHICH OF COURSE IS NO LONGER
RELEVANT IN THIS CASE OR IT CAN
LEAD TO SOMEONE'S
DISQUALIFICATION FROM EVER
HOLDING OFFICE AGAIN. NOW
ULTIMATELY THE SENATE HAS THE
POWER TO DECIDE WHETHER IT WOULD
PURSUE SUCH A PUNISHMENT, BUT
THAT HAS HAPPENED BEFORE. THERE
HAVE BEEN THREE TIMES IN
AMERICAN HISTORY WHERE THE
SENATE HAS DECIDED THROUGH AN
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL TO BAN SOMEONE
FROM EVER HOLDING OFFICE AGAIN.
NOTABLY THOUGH, ALL THREE OF
THOSE CASES INVOLVED FEDERAL
JUDGES. THEY HAVE NEVER MADE
SUCH A DECISION BEFORE INVOLVING
A
FORMER PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO SEE TO
BELIEVE. SOMETIMES WAITING ISN'T
AN OPTION. WHEN THE NEWS IS
BREAKING, WATCH AT THE NEWSROOM
AT THE
WASHINGTON POST. THINK YOU FOR
CHOOSING TO WATCH THE HEADLINES
AS THEY ARE BEING WRITTEN WITH
OUR JOURNALISTS. YOU CAN
SUBSCRIBE WITH A
SPECIAL
OFFER@WASHINGTONPOST.COM/WATCH.
SUBSCRIBING TO THAT LINK LETS
EVERYONE HEAR FROM THE FRONT
LINES TO THE CONTROL ROOM NO
THAT YOU CARE ABOUT OUR
CONTINUED EFFORTS TO INFORM THE
PUBLIC, PROTECT THE FIRST
AMENDMENT AND FOSTER A HEALTHY
DEMOCRACY. WE COULD NOT DO THIS
WITHOUT YOU.
&gt;&gt; 25 MINUTES UNTIL DAY TWO OF
THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL OF FORMER
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP RESUMES.
YOU ARE LOOKING AT A LIVE SHOT
OF CAPITOL HILL. THE SITE OF
WHAT IS UNFOLDING TODAY BUT ALSO
OF COURSE THE SITE OF THAT
ATTACK ON JANUARY 6 THAT IS AT
THE HEART OF TODAY'S ARGUMENTS.
LET'S GO TO RHONDA WHO IS IN THE
CAPITAL COMPLEX. WE WERE JUST
HEARING FROM LILLIAN IF YOU
MOMENTS AGO ABOUT THE HISTORY OF
THIS AND THE IDEA OF PREVENTING
SOMEONE FROM RUNNING FOR OFFICE,
HOLDING MAJOR OFFICE AGAIN. HOW
DOES THAT FACTOR INTO THE
DECISION-MAKING PROCESS OF
REPUBLICANS RIGHT NOW, SOME OF
WHOM FRANKLY WOULD LOVE TO HAVE
PRESIDENT TRUMP IN THE REARVIEW
MIRROR?
&gt;&gt; THAT IS AN IMPORTANT AN OPEN
QUESTION STILL BECAUSE WITH THIS
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL, OF COURSE
THEY WILL ULTIMATELY VOTE
WHETHER TO ACQUIT OR CONVICTED
DONALD TRUMP BUT THEY WOULD HAVE
TO TAKE ANOTHER VOTE AFTER THAT
TO DETERMINE IF THEY WANT TO
REMOVE HIM FROM EVER POSSIBLY
BEING ABLE TO HOLD ELECTED
OFFICE AGAIN. THAT IS A PART OF
THE CONSTITUTIONAL
INTERPRETATION OF
AN IMPEACHMENT. IT IS NOT SO
MUCH ABOUT REMOVING SOMEONE, IT
IS ALSO ABOUT MAKING SURE THAT
THEY DON'T RETURN TO ELECTED
OFFICE AND THAT IS ANOTHER PART
OF THE HOUSE DEMOCRATS ARGUMENT
HERE
IS THAT EVEN THOUGH HE IS GONE
NOW, HE HAS MADE PROMISES THAT
HE WILL RETURN IN SOME FASHION.
HE SAID THAT HIMSELF AND HIS
LAST COMMENTS THE DAY OF THE
INAUGURATION BEFORE HE FLEW OFF
TOMORROW LAGO THAT HE WOULD
RETURN IN SOME FASHION. THAT IS
A VERY REAL POSSIBILITY AND I
THINK REPUBLICANS ARE STILL
THINKING THROUGH HOW THEY FEEL
ABOUT THAT IF THEY DO END UP
HAVING TO TAKE SOME SORT OF VOTE
ON IF HE SHOULD BE ABLE TO RUN
AGAIN OR IF THERE IS A
RESOLUTION DRAFTED TO DETERMINE
IF HE IS FIT FOR HOLDING OFFICE
EVER AGAIN. I THINK THEY ARE ALL
STILL VERY VERY
MUCH CALCULATING WHAT IS HIS
ROLE RIGHT NOW IN THE PARTY? DO
YOU STAY LOYAL TO HIM OR DO YOU
COMPLETELY DIVORCE YOURSELF FROM
TRUMP AND TRUMP IS A? A LOT OF
THEM ARE STILL MAKING THAT
DECISION THEMSELVES THAT IS WHY
WE HAVE SEEN A LOT OF
FLIP-FLOPPING FROM SOME OF THE
REPUBLICANS WHO CAME OUT HOURS
OR DAYS AFTER JANUARY 6 AND SAID
HE HAD A ROLE IN IT AND WHEN IT
CAME TIME TO VOTE IN THE HOUSE,
YOU HAD SOMEONE LIKE KEVIN
McCARTHY SAID HE BEARS
RESPONSIBILITY BUT HE WOULD NOT
VOTE FOR HIS IMPEACHMENTS. IT IS
A LOT OF POLITICAL CALCULATION
GOING ON WITH REPUBLICANS.
&gt;&gt; JOINING ME NOW IS SARAH, A
VIDEO REPORTER ON OUR WASHINGTON
POST VISUAL
FORENSICS TEAM WHICH JUST LAST
NIGHT WON THE PRESTIGIOUS DuPONT
AWARD FOR THEIR INCREDIBLE
PIONEERING VISUAL JOURNALISM.
CONGRATULATIONS TO YOU AND THE
TEAM.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH. IT IS AN
HONOR TO BE HERE RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU. YOU AND THE TEAM
PUT TOGETHER THIS VERY POINT BY
POINT RECONSTRUCTION OF WHAT
HAPPENED ON THE EVENTS ON
JANUARY 6. IT IS SO
INFORMATIVE BECAUSE IT ZOOMS IN
AND SHOWS US WHAT WAS HAPPENING
IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE
CAPITAL AT ANY CERTAIN TIME. I
JUST WANT TO PLAY A CLIP OF THAT
AND THIS IS PART OF THAT
RECONSTRUCTION WHEN THE MOB IS
ENTERING THE CAPITAL. LET'S
WATCH.
&gt;&gt; POLICE ANNOUNCED THE ATTACK
ON THEIR RADIO CHANNELS.
&gt;&gt; THE CAPITAL HAS
BEEN BREACHED.
&gt;&gt; HOUSE MAJORITY LEADER DENNY
IS ESCORTED OUT OF THE CHAMBER
AND THE HOUSE GOES
INTO RECESS. HOUSE SPEAKER NANCY
PELOSI HAS ALREADY
BEEN EVACUATED. AT 2:19, CAPITAL
POLICE ISSUE AN ALERT ON A QUOTE
SECURITY THREAT INSIDE THE
BUILDING. BY TO: 25, THE SIDES
OF THE
MOB SWELLS. VIOLENT WRITERS
CRUSH
THE POLICE. AT THE SAME TIME ON
THE
FLOOR ABOVE, ANOTHER LOAN
CAPITAL POLICE OFFICER FIGHTS TO
KEEP AN ENTRANCE TO THE ROTUNDA
CLOSED IT IS OVERPOWERED BY
THE MOB. WRITERS STREAMED
THROUGH THE NOW OPEN MAIN DOORS
ON THE EAST SIDE OF
THE BUILDING. THEY FLED TO THE
RETURN TO MOVING TOWARDS THE
HOUSE CHAMBER WHEREAS OF TO: 26,
REPRESENTATIVES HAVE
RESUMED SESSION.
&gt;&gt; HOW CLOSE TO THESE WRITERS
GET TO MEMBERS OF CONGRESS?
&gt;&gt; THEY CAME VERY CLOSE. THERE
ARE INSTANCES WHERE THERE WERE
RIDERS ON ONE SIDE OF THE DOOR
AND LAWMAKERS ON THE OTHER. WE
SYNCHRONIZED NGO LOCATED
THE FOOTAGE AND WE WERE ABLE TO
MAP MOVEMENTS OF THE WRITERS TO
ASSESS HOW CLOSE THEY CAME TO
LAWMAKERS. FOR INSTANCE IN A
VIDEO THAT HAS BEEN WIDELY
SHARED, WE SEE THE RIDERS ENTER
UNDERNEATH THE SENATE CHAMBER
AND PURSUE A LOAN CAPITAL POLICE
OFFICER, EUGENE GOODMAN UP THE
STAIRCASE TO THE
SECOND FLOOR. AT ONE POINT THEY
PASS WITHIN 100 FEET OF FORMER
VICE PRESIDENT PENTZ AND HIS
FAMILY. ANOTHER INSTANCE OF HOW
CLOSE THE RIDERS CAME TO THE
LAWMAKERS WAS ONE THEY ENTERED
NANCY PELOSI'S SUITES. THERE WAS
STAFFERS HANGING UNDERNEATH THE
TABLE AND A CONFERENCE ROOM. WE
OBTAINED AUDIO WHERE YOU CAN
HEAR THE STAFFERS HIDING UNDER
THE TABLE AND THE RIDERS OUTSIDE
THE DOORS BANGING
AND YELLING.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO PLAY IS SECOND CLIP
FROM THE AFTERNOON OF
JANUARY 6 AND THIS WAS FROM
OUTSIDE THE SPEAKERS GALLERY
WHICH IS OFF THE HOUSE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; AS LAST LAWMAKERS LEAVE THAT
TO: -- 2:42 PM, THE NUMBER OF
RIDERS GROWS. SOME
REPRESENTATIVES REMAIN IN THE
HOUSE GALLERY.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT. THIS IS JUST
MOMENTS BEFORE ASHLEY BABBITT
WAS SHOT. LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT
WAS HAPPENING IN THAT PARTICULAR
LOCATION AND WHAT WAS HAPPENING
IN OTHER PARTS OF THE CAPITAL AT
THAT TIME.
&gt;&gt; SO MUCH WAS HAPPENING WITHIN
THESE FEW MINUTES BEFORE THE
SHOOTING
AT 2:44. AT 2:41 PM, LAWMAKERS
ARE BEING EVACUATED FROM THE
HOUSE FLOOR THROUGH THE SPEAKERS
LOBBY. WRITERS ARE ENTERING THAT
AREA AND THAT PUTS THEM WITHIN
APPROXIMATELY 60 FEET OF EACH
OTHER. ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
BUILDING IN THE SENATE CHAMBER,
THE RIDERS HAVE REACHED
THE CHAMBER. BACK IN THE HOUSE,
THE GALLERY IS STILL FULL OF
LAWMAKERS. THEY ARE CROUCHED ON
THE FLOOR HIDING UNDERNEATH
THEIR SEATS UNABLE TO LEAVE
BECAUSE THE CAPITAL POLICE HAVE
BARRICADED THE DOORS SO THAT THE
RIDERS CANNOT GET INSIDE.
OUTSIDE THE SPEAKERS LOBBY, WE
SEE THE RIDERS GETTING MORE AND
MORE AGITATED. A LINE OF
POLICE OFFICERS LEAVE AS A
TACTICAL UNIT ARRIVES. BEFORE
THEY DO, THE RIDERS START TO
SMASH THE DOORS AND WINDOWS WITH
HELMETS AND FLAGPOLES AS BABBITT
ATTEMPTS TO CLIMB THROUGH ONE OF
THOSE SMASHED WINDOWS AND AND
OFFICER FILES -- BUYERS A
SINGLE SHOT. INSIDE THE GALLERY,
WE CAN SEE THE LAWMAKERS HEAR
THE GUNSHOT AND REACT TO IT BY
TAKING OFF THEIR LAPEL PINS
AFRAID THAT THEY COULD BE
EASILY IDENTIFIED.
&gt;&gt; SARAH, THANK YOU SO MUCH AND
I WILL TWEET OUT A LINK TO THIS
RECONSTRUCTION THAT YOUR
TEAM DID. IT IS SO COMPELLING
AND AS YOU POINT OUT YOU WERE
ABLE TO PINPOINT WHERE THINGS
ARE IN THAT CAPITAL COMPLEX. I
KNOW YOU WILL BE WATCHING TODAY
AS WE SEE WHAT THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS PUT FORTH THEMSELVES
THAT DAY. APPRECIATE IT. LET'S
GO
TO JAMES FOR MORE ON THE
TIMELINE
OF EVENTS AND WHY IT IS SO
IMPORTANT FOR JOURNALISTS AS
WELL AS HISTORIANS FRANKLY JAMES
AS WELL AS THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS TO SHOW WHAT WAS
HAPPENING WHEN AND JUST HOW
CLOSE THINGS WERE.
&gt;&gt; YES. I THINK IT IS INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT FOR ALL THREE OF THOSE
GROUPS AND IF YOU ARE GOING TO
HAVE A PERRY MASON MOMENT, I
THINK IT IS A GOOD WAY TO
CAPTURE HOW VISCERAL THIS WAS.
THE FEAR THAT
PEOPLE FELT. A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
THAT ROOM KNOW EXACTLY HOW SCARY
IT WAS BECAUSE THEY WERE THERE
AND LIVED THROUGH IT BUT FOR A
LOT OF AMERICANS, ONE OF THOSE
THINGS WE TALKED ABOUT BEFORE,
IT ONLY GETS WORSE WITH TIME.
THE MORE
WE LEARN THE INCREDIBLE WORK OF
OUR VISUAL FORENSICS COLLEAGUES
HAS SHOWN US THAT IT WAS SO MUCH
SCARIER, THERE WERE SO MANY MORE
CLOSE CALLS THAT WE REALIZED
THAT THEY. THIS WASN'T SOME
SMALL RAGTAG GROUP OF PEOPLE WHO
CAME THROUGH ONE ENTRANCE AND
WERE WANDERING AROUND AIMLESSLY.
THIS
WAS COORDINATED. IT WAS REALLY
STARK IN TERMS OF HOW MANY
ENTRANCES THEY BREACHED. I THINK
IT IS IMPORTANT CERTAINLY TO
KNOW THE MOMENT BY MOMENT IN THE
CAPITAL AND WE WILL SEE SOME OF
THAT TODAY. IT IS IMPORTANT TO
LOOK AT THE DIRECT RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN TRUMPS WORDS
AND ACTIONS. THIS IS NOT A LEGAL
TRIAL. THERE IS A DIFFERENT
LEGAL STANDARD FOR INCITEMENT
AND THERE IS AN IMPEACHABLE
STANDARD THAT THE IMPEACHABLE
STANDARD IS HIGH CRIMES AND
MISDEMEANORS. THERE IS A LEGAL
STANDARD BASED ON A 1969 SUPREME
COURT CASE THAT MAKES IT HARD TO
PROSECUTE SOMEONE FOR INCITEMENT
BUT THE OTHER THING THAT IS
IMPORTANT FOR ALL THREE OF THOSE
GROUPS TO UNDERSTAND, THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE, THE HISTORIANS
AND POLITICIANS IS THE PATTERN
OF CONDUCT DURING THOSE 77 DAYS
BETWEEN THE ELECTION AND
THE INAUGURATION. IT WAS NOT
JUST THE SPEECH AT THE SO CALLED
STOP THE STEEL RALLY RIGHT
BEFORE THE MOB SACKED THE
CAPITAL. IT WAS TRUMPS TWEETS
SAYING COME TO DC, IT IS GOING
TO BE WILD IN THE WEEKS RUNNING
UP AHEAD OF TIME. EVEN THE
COMMENT TO THE PROUD BOYS TO
STAND BACK AND STANDBY. ALSO HIS
COMMENTS AFTERWARDS, NOT JUST
HIS IMMEDIATE RESPONSE WHICH WE
TALKED ABOUT A COUPLE MINUTES
AGO BUT ALSO HIS TWEET THAT
EVENING WHICH WE HEARD MENTIONED
THREE DIFFERENT TIMES DURING THE
OPENING COMMENTS FROM THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS YESTERDAY
WHICH WAS THIS IS A DAY THAT
WILL BE REMEMBERED FOREVER. THIS
WAS A HISTORY AND PEOPLE LIKE
YVONNE, TRUMP
AND OTHERS CALLING TO MEMBERS OF
THE MOB, THE INSURRECTIONIST,
CALLING THEM PATRIOTS EVEN AFTER
THEY HAD SACKED THE CAPITAL. SO
ALL OF THAT CREATES THIS
PICTURE, THIS BODY OF EVIDENCE
THAT IT IS MORE THAN JUST ONE
SPEECH. IT IS EVERYTHING THAT
WAS LEADING UP TO IT. EVEN
TRUMPS SPEECH THE NIGHT OF THE
ELECTION WHERE HE CLAIMED
VICTORY EVEN THOUGH IT WAS CLEAR
THE ELECTION WAS MOVING AWAY
FROM HIM AND WE HAVE OUR OWN
REPORTING AT THE WASHINGTON POST
THE TRUMP KNEW THERE WAS GOING
TO BE THIS
RED MIRAGE WHERE IT LOOKED LIKE
HE WAS LEAVING BECAUSE MILLAN
BALLOTS HAD BEEN COUNTED BEFORE
ELECTION DAY BECAUSE OF STATE
LAWS IN VARIOUS PLACES AND TRUMP
MADE A STRATEGIC DECISION BEFORE
THE ELECTION THAT HE WOULD CLAIM
VICTORY EVEN IF IT LOOKED LIKE
HE WAS GOING TO BE DEFEATED SO
HE COULD CALL THE ELECTION
ILLEGITIMATE. ALL OF THAT POINTS
TO MOTIVE, POINTS TO THIS
PATTERN
OF CONDUCT THAT IS PART OF WHAT
ULTIMATELY LEADS TO THIS CHARGE
OF INCITEMENT. IT IS VALUABLE TO
CONSIDER ALL OF THAT AND I
EXPECT WE WILL SEE INCREDIBLY
COMPELLING FOOTAGE TODAY BUT WE
ARE ALSO GOING TO BE REMINDED OF
ALL THOSE THINGS DRIP BY DRIP BY
DRIP TO THIS FLOOD OF
JANUARY 6.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, WE DO SEE THAT
HISTORY THAT JAMES IS TALKING
ABOUT, ALL THE EVENTS LEADING UP
TO JANUARY 6 ARE
AN IMPORTANT PART OF MAKING
THEIR CASE AND BUILDING THEIR
ARGUMENT SO HOW ESSENTIAL WILL
THAT BE TO THESE NEXT COUPLE OF
DAYS?
&gt;&gt; IT WILL BE
PRETTY ESSENTIAL AND WE HAVE
BEEN HEARING THAT FROM HOUSE
MANAGERS THAT THEY WANT TO
CONSTRUCT A TIMELINE. THEY WANT
TO SHOW THIS WAS NOT ONE
SINGULAR EVENT. IT WAS A PART OF
A GROUP OF EVENTS FROM WEEKS IF
NOT MONTHS OF DONALD TRUMP
HAVING RHETORIC ABOUT THE
ELECTION BEING RAKED AND WHY
THAT
IS IMPORTANT IS TO ESTABLISH
THAT THERE IS A TREND, TO
ESTABLISH THAT THIS WAS NOT JUST
A GROUP OF PEOPLE COMING
TOGETHER HIGHLY PASSIONATE ABOUT
COMING INTO THE CAPITAL ON
JANUARY 6 THAT SOME OF THEM EVEN
RECRUITED MEMBERS OF THEIR
FAMILY AND FRIENDS IN THEIR
STATES TO COME IN RIOTS ON BUSES
TO
GET HERE FOR THIS EVENT SO THIS
WAS PLANNED. THERE WAS SOME
CHOREOGRAPHY WITH IT. THEY WERE
COMING IN AT ALL DIFFERENT
ANGLES OF THE CAPITAL COMPLEX.
IT WAS NOT A RANDOM EVENT. SO
HOUSE MANAGERS WANT TO SHOW THAT
THIS WAS A PART OF A LARGER
EVENT AND THE EVENT IS THAT
DONALD TRUMP THROUGHOUT HIS
CAMPAIGN, THE 2020 PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGN, HE WAS TEEING UP TO
THIS MOMENT
AND ALSO IN THE ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT IN THE DRAFT, IT
DOES TALK ABOUT THAT CALL HE
MADE A FEW DAYS BEFORE JANUARY 6
TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE OF
GEORGIA ASKING HIM TO QUOTE FIND
SOME VOTES FOR HIM. THAT IS A
PART OF
IT ALSO. A WANT TO PROJECT TO
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AS WELL IS
TO THE SENATORS THAT THIS IS A
PART OF LONG-STANDING BEHAVIOR.
IT WAS NOT A RANDOM EVENT.
&gt;&gt; HOW COMPLICIT DOES THAT MAKE
REPUBLICAN SENATORS AND HOUSE
MEMBERS, REPUBLICAN SENATORS WHO
ARE SITTING HERE IN THIS CHAMBER
TODAY LISTENING TO THESE
ARGUMENTS IF THEY WERE
SUPPORTING THROUGH THE
BOGUS LAWSUITS THEY GAVE TRUMPS
CHALLENGES SOME SORT OF SHEEN OF
LEGAL CREDIBILITY JUST BECAUSE
THEY HAVE BEEN FILED AND ALSO
WERE REFUSING TO ACCEPT AND
PUBLICLY SAY THAT JOE BIDEN HAD
WON THE ELECTION?
&gt;&gt; MY PERSONAL OPINION WOULD BE
A
FAIR AMOUNT. THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS HAVE MADE A
DELIBERATE DECISION NOT TO PUT
REPUBLICANS ON TRIAL HERE. THEY
OBVIOUSLY NEED 17 REPUBLICAN
VOTES. SO YOU ARE NOT GOING TO
HEAR DEMOCRATS SAYING JOSH HOLLY
DESERVES BLAME FOR HELPING
INSIDE THE MOB BY GIVING THIS
FALSE PATENT OF LEGITIMACY TO
THE CHALLENGING THE ELECTION
RESULTS AND IN FACT, TRUMP'S
LAWYERS HAVE SAID THEY ARE NOT
GOING TO MAKE THAT CLAIM. THEY
ARE UNDER PRESSURE BY TRUMP TO
DO SO AND THAT IS WHY HIS FIRST
LEGAL TEAM, THE GUYS FROM SOUTH
CAROLINA ALL QUIT TWO WEEKS AGO
BECAUSE THEY WERE WILLING TO
ARGUE THAT ELECTION ACTUALLY WAS
STOLEN BECAUSE THERE IS NO
EVIDENCE OF THAT AT ALL. I THINK
YOU COULD MAKE A VERY STRONG
LEGAL ARGUMENT OR CERTAINLY A
POLITICAL ARGUMENT THAT PEOPLE
LIKE HOLLY AND TED CRUZ DESERVE
QUITE A LOT OF BLAME BUT WE ARE
NOT GOING TO HEAR THAT FROM THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS BECAUSE IT
IS NEVER A GOOD THING TO
ANTAGONIZE
THE JURY DURING A TRIAL.
&gt;&gt; NOT ONLY THAT BUT EVEN THOUGH
WE ARE SEEING THE HOUSE JUST SO
SPLIT AND DIVIDED RIGHT NOW AND
DEMOCRATS FOR EXAMPLE EXPRESSING
ACTUAL FEAR OVER THERE SAFETY
WHEN IT NEARBY REPUBLICAN
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WHO WERE
NOT, PROMISING NOT TO BRING
WEAPONS ON THE HOUSE FLOOR, ETC.
BUT THE SENATE HAS TRADITIONALLY
BEEN A REALLY COLLEGIAL BODY.
YOU COULD SEE A LOT OF MEMBERS
BRISTLING EVEN IF THEY MIGHT
PRIVATELY AGREE THAT THESE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS COME IN
HERE AND START POINTING THE
FINGER AT THEIR PEERS.
&gt;&gt; YES. ABSOLUTELY. THAT IS
TOTALLY CORRECT AND A LOT OF
THIS DYNAMIC IS MUCH MORE
PRONOUNCED ON THE HOUSE SIDE.
THE HOUSE SIDE IS A MORE
MAJORITARIAN BODY, THEY ARE
SMALLER DISTRICTS. THEY ARE A
LOT MORE FRINGE FIGURES ON THE
RIGHT AND THE LEFT IN THE RIGHT
AND THERE IS A LOT MORE PALPABLE
TENSION OVER THERE. THEY DO HAVE
METAL DETECTORS THAT MEMBERS
HAVE TO GO THROUGH NOW OR THEY
GET FINDS. SOME REPUBLICANS
STILL REFUSING TO GO THROUGH
METAL DETECTORS AND GETTING
FIND. HOUSE MEMBERS REFUSING TO
WEAR MASKS. WE HAVEN'T HEARD ANY
STORIES, THAT'S
NOT TRUE. WE HAVE HEARD REFUSAL
OF SENATORS TO WEAR MASKS LIKE
RAND PAUL BUT IT IS A DIFFERENT
KIND
OF BODY. THE SENATE HAS LONG
CONSIDERED ITSELF THE WORLD'S
GREATEST DELIBERATIVE BODY AND
THEY CERTAINLY WOULDN'T TAKE
WHILE TO A COLLEAGUE BEING
IMPUGNED AND YOU CERTAINLY COULD
SEE PEOPLE RAISING OBJECTIONS IF
THAT WERE
TO HAPPEN. IT IS NOT GOING TO
WIN PEOPLE OVER IN THE TRIAL OF
PUBLIC OPINION EITHER.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO BACK TO THE WHITE
HOUSE TO CHECK IN WITH JOYCE.
WHAT IS THE LATEST REACTION FROM
THE WHITE HOUSE AND TEAM BIDEN
ON THIS IMPEACHMENT TRIAL?
&gt;&gt; LIBBY, THE WHITE HOUSE HAS
NOT CHANGED THEIR MESSAGING ON
IMPEACHMENT AND THEIR REACTION
TO THE IMPEACHMENT AS IT IS NOT
LIKELY THAT THEY WILL. THEY HAVE
SAID SINCE TAKING OFFICE THAT
PRESIDENT BIDEN HAS A LOT OF
THINGS TO DO. HE HAS A NUMBER OF
AGENDA ITEMS HE WANTS TO
ACCOMPLISH AND THEY HAVE LARGELY
STAYED OUT OF THE FRAY IN
REACTING TO ANYTHING THAT IS
HAPPENING CERTAINLY THE DAY TO
DAY NEWS THAT IS COMING OUT ON
IMPEACHMENT WHICH IS IN DRAWING
TO START CONTRAST WITH WHAT WE
WOULD'VE BEEN USED TO SING
FORMER PRESIDENT TRUMPS
ADMINISTRATION WHERE HE WAS
CONSTANTLY ON TWITTER REACTING
TO REALLY EVERYTHING THAT WAS
GOING ON AND CERTAINLY WATCHING
THE NEWS AS IT IS UNFOLDING. WE
DO KNOW THAT A PRESS BRIEFING IS
SCHEDULED FOR ANY MOMENT NOW AT
THE WHITE HOUSE AND THEY HAVE
BEEN SCHEDULING THESE PRESS
CONFERENCES OVER THE LAST TWO
DAYS, THESE BRIEFINGS, RIGHT
AROUND THE TIME WHEN IMPEACHMENT
STARTS. IT COULD BE A SIGNAL
THAT THERE ARE OTHER THINGS
GOING ON IN THE WORLD RIGHT NOW
THAT BIDEN IS FOCUSED ON AND WE
HEARD FROM JEN YESTERDAY IN THE
LATEST PRESS BRIEFING WHERE SHE
WAS ASKED ABOUT IMPEACHMENT
NUMEROUS TIMES AND BIDEN'S
THOUGHTS
ON IMPEACHMENT, AND SHE SAID
NUMEROUS TIMES OVER AND OVER
AGAIN THAT BIDEN IS NOT FOCUSED
ON THAT. THEY DON'T WANT TO
RESPOND TO THE DAY TO DAY NEWS
THAT IS HAPPENING. SHE SAID THAT
BIDEN IS A PRESIDENT, NOT A
PUNGENT, AND SHE ALSO SAID THAT
SPEAKING ON BIDEN'S THOUGHTS ON
TRUMP, BIDEN DECIDED TO RUN
AGAINST TRUMP BECAUSE HE THOUGHT
THAT TRUMP WAS A THREAT TO OUR
DEMOCRACY. NOT A LOT OF MYSTERY
THERE ON HOW BIDEN FEELS ABOUT
TRUMP AND HIS ROLE IN THIS, BUT
HE WAS ASKED ABOUT IT
HIMSELF YESTERDAY DURING A ROOM
IN THE OVAL OFFICE DURING A
SITUATION IN THE OVAL OFFICE
WERE A REPORTER ASKED HIM ARE
YOU GOING TO BE WATCHING THE
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL? WHAT ARE YOUR
THOUGHTS ON THAT AND TAKE A
LISTEN TO WHAT HE HAD TO SAY.
&gt;&gt; I TOLD YOU BEFORE I HAVE A
JOB. MY JOB IS TO KEEP PEOPLE,
WE HAVE ALREADY LOST OVER 40
50,000 PEOPLE. WE ARE GOING TO
LOSE A WHOLE LOT MORE IF WE
DON'T ACT AND ACT DECISIVELY AND
QUICKLY. A LOT OF PEOPLE, A LOT
OF CHILDREN ARE GOING TO BED
HUNGRY, A LOT OF FAMILIES ARE
FOOD INSECURE. THEY ARE IN
TROUBLE. THE SENATE HAS THEIR
JOB. THEY ARE ABOUT TO BEGIN.
I'M SURE THEY WILL CONDUCT
THEMSELVES WELL AND THAT IS ALL
I'M GOING TO SAY ABOUT
IMPEACHMENT.
&gt;&gt; AS IMPEACHMENT IS GOING ON IN
THE SENATE,
BIDEN AND VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS
WILL BE GOING TO THE PENTAGON TO
MEET WITH HIS DEFENSE SECRETARY
LLOYD AUSTIN WHO IS THE FIRST
BLACK PERSON TO LEAD THE
PENTAGON. THEY WILL BE GOING
THERE AND HONORING BLACK
SERVICEMEMBERS AS WELL IN
OBSERVANCE OF FEBRUARY IS BLACK
HISTORY MONTH. LETTER TODAY FROM
THE WHITE HOUSE, WE WILL BE
EXPECTED TO HEAR FROM JEFF WHO
IS THE COVID TASK FORCE, COVID
RESPONSE COORDINATOR I SHOULD
SAY AND WILL BE GIVING A PRESS
BRIEFING AND WE SHOULD BE
HEARING SOME NEWS ABOUT THE
VACCINE ROLLOUT AND BIDEN IS
ALSO EXPECTED TO SIGN A COUPLE
OF EXECUTIVE ORDERS ON
IMMIGRATION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH. LET'S GO
TO YOU JAMES FOR THIS QUESTION
OF JUST WHAT CAN BE ACCOMPLISHED
WHILE THE SENATE IS DOING THIS.
EVEN THOUGH THE SENATORS ARE
LITERALLY LOCKED IN THIS ROOM OR
THIS AREA DURING THE TRIAL,
THEIR STAFF CAN BE GETTING
THINGS DONE. HOW HARD IS IT TO
KEEP MOMENTUM GOING ON THE COVID
RELIEF BILL?
&gt;&gt; RIGHT NOW AS WE HAVE BEEN
TALKING THIS MORNING, THERE HAS
BEEN A SENATE BUDGET COMMITTEE
CONFIRMATION HEARING,
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS
ASKING QUESTIONS. THEY ARE STILL
MOVING THROUGH REGULAR ORDER TO
TEE UP SEVERAL CONFIRMATION
VOTES FOR NEXT WEEK TO GET
PRESIDENT BIDEN'S TEAM IN PLACE.
NEGOTIATIONS
ON THE COVID BILL ARE HAPPENING.
THEY ARE NOT IN ANY MEANINGFUL
WAY IMPACTED BY THIS. THEY
ALREADY CLEARED THE PROCEDURAL
HURDLE FOR BUDGET RECONCILIATION
LAST WEEK AFTER THAT I'LL NOTE
-- ALL NIGHT VOTE WHERE HARRIS
HAD TO COME TO BREAK THE TIE ON
THE ULTIMATE VOTES. THEY ARE
STILL MANEUVERING BACK AND
FORTH. YOU HAVE DEMOCRATS WHO
ARE NOT TOTALLY UNITED ON HOW TO
HANDLE THIS IN THE HOUSE MEMBERS
AND SENATORS ARE PUTTING FORTH
VARIOUS PROPOSALS FOR WHERE TO
CUT OFF THE STIMULUS CHECKS, HOW
BIG TO MAKE THE STIMULUS CHECKS.
ALL OF THAT IS BEING NEGOTIATED
BEHIND THE SCENES AND A LOT OF
THE FOCUS OF THE BIDEN
ADMINISTRATION
RIGHT NOW IS STOPPING SOME OF
THE SO-CALLED MIDNIGHT
REGULATIONS BY THE OUTGOING
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION. I TALKED
TO A BIDEN PERSON AND HE SAID
THEY ARE
FOCUSED ON TRYING TO AS QUICKLY
AS POSSIBLE UNDER THE THINGS
THAT COULD ACTUALLY HAVE
TANGIBLE ADVERSE IMPACTS ON
PEOPLE ESPECIALLY WHEN IT COMES
TO ENVIRONMENTAL DEREGULATION TO
TRY TO STOP THAT FROM GOING INTO
EFFECT
WHENEVER POSSIBLE. THIS TRIAL
DRAGGED ON FOR WEEKS AND WEEKS
WHICH WOULD HAPPEN IF THEY VOTED
AT THE END OF THIS WEEK TO CALL
WITNESSES. THAT IT COULD START
TO REALLY TAKE A TOLL ON THE
STIMULUS PACKAGE AND ON THE
OTHER THINGS THAT BIDEN WANTS TO
GET DONE BUT A WEEK IS NOT
GOING TO DERAIL PRESIDENT
BIDEN'S AGENDA AND BIDEN DOES
HAVE SOME POLITICAL EXPERIENCE
AND TALENT AT
COMPARTMENTALIZATION WHICH IS
BEING ABLE TO NOT TALK ABOUT
THINGS HE DOESN'T WANT TO TALK
ABOUT AND FOCUS ON THINGS HE IS
GOING TO TALK ABOUT WHETHER THAT
IS THE VACCINE OR THE PENTAGON
OR WHAT HAVE YOU. BIDEN DID A
PRETTY GOOD JOB THAT DURING THE
CAMPAIGN WITH DRIVING HIS
MESSAGE AT A TIME WHEN ALL OF US
IN THE MEDIA ARE
FOCUSED ON THE THING THAT DONALD
TRUMP HAD DONE THAT DAY WAS.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO RHONDA. WE ARE
WATCHING THESE SENATORS HAD INTO
THE CHAMBER. THERE IS SENATOR
GRASSLEY. WE JUST SAW MITCH
McCONNELL A FEW MOMENTS AGO, THE
TOP REPUBLICAN IN THE SENATE.
WHAT WILL YOU BE LISTENING AND
WATCHING
FOR TODAY?
&gt;&gt; I THINK WHAT EVERYBODY IS
WAITING FOR IS TO SEE THIS NEW
EVIDENCE AT THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS SAY THEY
ARE GOING TO PUT FORWARD. THIS
IS GOING TO BE TO REFRESH OUR
MEMORIES FROM THE BEGINNING OF
THE SHOW, THIS WILL BE A NEVER
BEFORE SEEN SECURITY FOOTAGE OF
THE EVENTS OF JANUARY 6 SO I
WILL BE ABLE TO SEE WHAT THAT IS
AND WHAT IMPACT THAT HAS. SO
SENATORS WERE REALLY ENGAGED
YESTERDAY AND LOOKING AT THE
VERY VIVID MONTAGE THAT THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS PUT
FORWARD AT THE BEGINNING OF THE
ARGUMENTS, THE VIVID VIDEO THEY
SHOWED AN THAT MOVED SOME OF THE
SENATORS SO I'M INTERESTED TO
SEE SOME OF THIS NEW FOOTAGE AND
WHAT THAT MIGHT DO AND HOW THAT
EITHER CARRIES ON THE MOMENTUM
OF THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS HAVE HAD SINCE
YESTERDAY AND WHAT THAT DOES TO
THIS TRIAL SO WATCHING THESE
DEVELOPMENTS AS THEY HAPPEN.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL BE THERE LIFE ON
CAPITOL HILL. WE ARE
ANTICIPATING ABOUT UP TO EIGHT
HOURS OF TIME TODAY FOR THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS TO MAKE
THEIR ARGUMENTS. WE DO EXPECT TO
HEAR FROM ALL OR AT LEAST A LOT
OF THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS.
THIS WILL BE A CHANCE TO SEE
THEM EACH AN ACTION. WE HEARD
FROM THREE OF THEM.
AS RHONDA
&gt;&gt;&gt; Never before seen footage
fromREMINDED US, WE WILL  INSIDE
THE CAPITAL THAT WILL SHOW HOW
CLOSE THE ATTACKERS WERE TO
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND THEIR
STAFF. SEE CHAPLAIN FOOTAGEBARRY
IS THERE NOW SO HE LET'S GO TO
HIM ON THE SENATE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; A POWERFUL GOD, SOVEREIGN OF
THIS BELOVED LANE. YOU ARE OUR
FORTRESS, AND YOU DESIRE JUST
JUSTICE TO BE DONE. AS OUR
SENATE JURORS REMEMBER THEIR
ACCOUNTABILITY TO YOU, USE THEM.
TO CAUSE JUSTICE TO ROLL DOWN
LIKE WATERS AND RIGHTEOUSNESS
LIKE A MIGHTY STRING. LORD,
DURING THIS IMPEACHMENT TRIAL,
GIVE OUR LAWMAKERS THE GIFT OF
DISCERNMENT
SO THAT THEY WILL KNOW TRUTH.
INSPIRE THEM TO COMMIT THEIR
THOUGHTS AND DECISIONS TO YOU.
LET
YOUR KINGDOM COME AND YOU ARE
WILL BE DONE ON EARTH AS IT IS
DONE IN HEAVEN. WE PRAY IN YOUR
MIGHTY NAME, AMEN.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE JOIN ME
.
&gt;&gt; ONE NATION UNDER GOD,
INDIVISIBLE, WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS, WILL YOU BE SEATED.
IF THERE ARE NO OBJECTIONS, THE
TRIAL ARE APPROVED TODAY.
THE ARMS WILL MAKE THE
PROCLAMATION.
&gt;&gt; HEAR YE, HEAR YE, HEAR YE.
ALL PERSONS ARE COMMANDED TO
KEEP SILENCE ON PAIN OF
IMPRISONMENT WHILE THE SENATE OF
THE UNITED STATES THE SETTING
FOR THE TRIAL OF THE ARTICLE OF
IMPEACHMENT AGAINST DONALD J
TRUMP, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT
.
&gt;&gt; THE MAJORITY LEADER IS
RECOGNIZED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU PREFER THE
INFORMATION FOR ALL SENATORS, NO
MOTIONS WERE FILED THIS MORNING.
WE WILL PROCEED TO THE HOUSE
MANAGER'S PRESENTATION. WE
ANTICIPATE 210 MINUTE BREAKS AND
A 45 MINUTE DINNER BREAK AROUND
6:00 P.M.
&gt;&gt; IN PURSUANT TO THE PROVISIONS
OF SENATE RESOLUTIONS 47, THE
MANAGERS FOR THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES
HAVE 16 HOURS TO MAKE THE
PRESENTATION THE CASE. THE
SENATE WILL NOW HERE YOU AND
RECOGNIZED MR. MANAGER RASKIN TO
BEGIN THE PRESENTATION OF THE
CASE FOR THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES.  MR. RASKIN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MR.
PRESIDENT, MEMBERS OF THE
SENATE. GOOD MORNING AND GOOD
DAY.
SOME PEOPLE THINK THIS TRIAL IS
A CONTEST OF LAWYERS OR EVEN
WORSE, A COMPETITION BETWEEN
MEDICAL PARTIES. IT IS NEITHER.
IT IS A MOMENT OF TRUTH FOR
AMERICA. MY LATE FATHER MARCUS
RASKIN ONCE WROTE, DEMOCRACY
NEEDS A GROUND TO STAND UPON AND
THAT GROUND IS THE TRUTH.
AMERICAN NEEDS THE TRUTH ABOUT X
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S ROLE IN
INCITING THE INSURRECTION ON
JANUARY 6th, BECAUSE IT
THREATENED OUR GOVERNMENT AND IT
DISRUPTED, IT EASILY COULD HAVE
DESTROYED THE PEACEFUL TRANSFER
OF POWER IN THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN 233 YEARS
. IT WAS SUGGESTED YESTERDAY BY
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S COUNSEL
THAT THIS IS REALLY LIKE A
ACCIDENT OR NATURAL DISASTER,
WHERE LOTS OF PEOPLE GET INJURED
AND KILLED IN SOCIETY WHEN THEY
ARE LOOKING FOR SOMEONE TO BLAME
AND
THAT IS A NATURAL AND NORMAL
HUMAN REACTION ACCORDING TO
PRESIDENTS COUNCIL BUT HE SAYS
IT IS UNFAIR IN THIS CASE.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP,
ACCORDING TO MR. CASTOR,
ESSENTIALLY INNOCENT BYSTANDER
WHO GOT SWEPT UP IN THIS
CATASTROPHE BUT DID NOTHING
WRONG. THIS ASSERTION, MR.
CASTOR UNERRINGLY ECHOES HIS
CLIENT, X PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
WHO DECLARED AFTER THE
INSURRECTION THAT HIS CONDUCT
WAS PUT TOTALLY APPROPRIATE. WE
CAN ONLY ASSUME HE COULD DO, AND
WHAT DO, THE EXACT SAME THING
AGAIN, BECAUSE HE SAID HIS
CONDUCT WAS TOTALLY APPROPRIATE.
SO, NOW THE FACTUAL INQUIRY OF
THE TRIAL IS SQUARELY POSED FOR
US. THE JURISDICTIONAL
CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUE IS GONE,
WHETHER YOU WERE PERSUADED BY
THE PRESIDENT'S CONSTITUTIONAL
ANALYSIS YESTERDAY OR NOT, THE
SENATE VOTED TO REJECT IT. THE
SENATE IS NO PROPERLY EXERCISING
ITS JURISDICTION AND SITTING AS
A COURT OF IMPEACHMENT
CONDUCTING A TRIAL ON THE FACTS.
WE ARE HAVING A TRIAL ON THE
FACTS. THE HOUSE SAYS
EX-PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
INCITED A VIOLENT INSURRECTION
AGAINST CONGRESS AND THE
CONSTITUTION AND THE PEOPLE. THE
PRESIDENT'S LAWYER AND THE
PRESIDENT'S SAY HIS CONDUCT WAS
TOTALLY APPROPRIATE AND HE IS A
INNOCENT VICTIM OF CIRCUMSTANCES
LIKE THE OTHER INNOCENT VICTIMS
THAT WE WILL SEE GETTING CAUGHT
UP IN ALL OF THE VIOLENCE AND
CHAOS OVER THE NEXT SEVERAL DAYS
TO THAT WILL BE FOR YOU TO SEE
AND HEAR AND DIGEST. THE
EVIDENCE WILL SHOW YOU THAT X
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS NO INNOCENT
BYSTANDER.
THE EVIDENCE WILL SHOW THAT HE
CLEARLY INVITED THE JANUARY 6th
INSURRECTION. IT WILL SHOW THAT
DONALD TRUMP SURRENDERED HIS
ROLE AS COMMANDER IN CHIEF AND
BECAME THE IN FIGHTER IN CHIEF
OF A DANGEROUS INSURRECTION IN
THIS ONE, AS ONE OF OUR
COLLEAGUES BUT THIS SO COGENTLY
ON JANUARY 6 ITSELF, THE
GREATEST BETRAYAL OF THE
PRESIDENT IN THE HISTORY OF THE
UNITED STATES. THE EVIDENCE WILL
SHOW YOU THAT HE SAW IT COMING
AND WAS NOT REMOTELY SURPRISED
BY THE VIOLENCE. WHEN THE
VIOLENCE INEXORABLY AND
INEVITABLY CAME AS PREDICTED AND
OVERRAN THIS BODY AND THE HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES WITH CHAOS,
WE WILL SHOW YOU THAT HE
COMPLETELY ABDICATED HIS DUTY AS
COMMANDER IN CHIEF TO STOP THE
VIOLENCE AND PROTECT THE
GOVERNMENT AND PROTECT OUR
OFFICERS AND OUR PEOPLE. HE
VIOLATED HIS OATH OF OFFICE TO
PRESERVE, PROTECT AND DEFEND THE
CONSTITUTION, THE GOVERNMENT AND
THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE EVIDENCE WILL SHOW YOU THAT
HE ASSEMBLED AND FRAMED AND
INCITED HIS FOLLOWERS TO DESCEND
UPON THE CAPITAL TO STOP THE
STEEL, TO BLOCK VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE AND CONGRESS FROM
FINALIZING HIS OPPONENTS
ELECTION VICTORY OVER HIM.
HE WILL SHOW THAT HE WAS WARNED
THAT THESE FOLLOWERS WERE
PREPARED FOR A VIOLENT ATTACK
TARGETING US AT THE CAPITAL
THROUGH MEDIA REPORTS, LAW
ENFORCEMENT REPORTS AND EVEN
ARRESTS. IN SHORT, WE WILL PROVE
THAT THE IMPEACHED PRESIDENT WAS
NO INNOCENT BYSTANDER WHO HIS
CONDUCT WAS TOTALLY APPROPRIATE
AND SHOULD BE A STANDARD FOR
FUTURE PRESIDENTS, BUT THAT HE
INCITED THIS ATTACK AND HE SAW
IT COMING. TO US, IT MAY HAVE
FELT LIKE CHAOS AND MADNESS BUT
THERE WAS NOTHING IN THE MADNESS
THAT DAY.
THIS WAS AN ORGANIZED ATTACK ON
THE COUNTING OF THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE VOTES IN JOINT SESSION
OF THE UNITED STATES CONGRESS,
THE 12th AMENDMENT AND ELECTORAL
COUNT ACT TO PREVENT VICE
PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE AND TO
PREVENT US FOR ACCOUNTING
ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTES TO
CERTIFY JOE BIDEN'S VICTORY OF
306 TO 232 IN THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE. A MARGIN THAT THE
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD DECLARED A
LANDSLIDE IN 2016. WHEN MIKE
COLLEAGUE
, MR. NEGUS'S BASE AFTER ME, HE
WILL SET FORTH IN DETAIL, THE
ROADMAP OF ALL OF THE EVIDENCE
IN THE CASE. MY FELLOW HOUSE
MANAGERS AND I WILL TAKE YOU
THROUGH THE EVIDENCE
STEP-BY-STEP SO EVERYONE CAN SEE
EXACTLY HOW THESE EVENTS
UNFOLDED. I WANT TO TELL YOU A
FEW KEY REASONS NOW THAT WE KNOW
THIS CASE IS NOT ABOUT BLAMING
AN INNOCENT BYSTANDER FOR THE
HORRIFIC VIOLENCE AND HARM THAT
TOOK PLACE ON JANUARY 6th, THIS
IS ABOUT HOLDING ACCOUNTABLE THE
PERSON SINGULARLY RESPONSIBLE
FOR INCITING THE TYPE. LET'S
START WITH DECEMBER 12th. YOU
WILL SEE DURING THIS TRIAL A MAN
WHO PRAISED AND ENCOURAGED AND
CULTIVATED VIOLENCE. WE HAVE
JUST BEGUN TO FIGHT
MORE THAN A MONTH AFTER THE
ELECTION HAS TAKEN PLACE. THAT
IS BEFORE THE SECOND MILLION
MEGA MARCH, A RALLY THAT ENDED
IN SERIOUS VIOLENCE AND EVEN THE
BURNING OF THE CHURCH
AND AS THE PRESIDENT FORECASTED,
WAS ONLY THE BEGINNING. ON
DECEMBER 19th, 18 DAYS BEFORE
JANUARY 6, HE TOLD HIS FACE
ABOUT WHERE THE BATTLE WENT BE
THAT THEY WOULD FIGHT NEXT.
JANUARY 6th WOULD BE WILD, HE
PROMISED. BE THERE, WE WILL BE
WILD, SAID THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. THAT,
TOO, TURNED OUT
TO BE TRUE. YOU WILL SEE IN THE
DAYS THAT FOLLOWED THAT DONALD
TRUMP CONTINUED TO AGGRESSIVELY
PROMOTE JANUARY 6th TWO HIS
FOLLOWERS. THE EVENT WAS
SCHEDULED AT THE PRECISE TIME
THAT CONGRESS WOULD BE MEETING
IN JOINT SESSION TO COUNT THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTES AND TO
FINALIZE THE 2020 PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION. IN FACT, IN THE DAYS
LEADING UP TO THE ATTACK, YOU
WILL LEARN THERE WERE COUNTLESS
SOCIAL MEDIA POSTS, NEWS STORIES
AND MOST IMPORTANTLY CREDIBLE
REPORTS FROM THE FBI AND CAPITOL
POLICE THAT THE THOUSANDS
GATHERING FOR THE PRESIDENT'S
SAVE AMERICA MARCH WERE VIOLENT,
ORGANIZED WITH WEAPONS AND WERE
TARGETING THE CAPITOL. THIS
MODEL WAS SO  ORGANIZED OPENLY
AS THEY WOULD LATER SCREAM IN
THE HALLS AND AS THEY POSTED ON
FORUMS BEFORE THE ATTACK, THEY
WERE SENT HERE BY THE PRESIDENT,
THEY WERE INVITED HERE BY THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA. WHEN THEY SHOWED UP,
KNOWING OF THESE REPORTS THAT
THE CROWD WAS ANGRY AND IT WAS
ARMED, HERE IS WHAT DONALD TRUMP
TOLD THEM
, PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP WHIPPED
THE CROWD INTO A FRENZY TELLING
FOLLOWERS IF YOU DON'T FIGHT
LIKE HELL
, YOU WILL NOT HAVE A COUNTRY
ANYMORE AND HE'S AIMED STRAIGHT
AT THE CAPITAL SAYING YOU WILL
NEVER TAKE BACK OUR COUNTRY WITH
WEAKNESS, YOU HAVE TO SHOW
STRENGTH AND YOU HAVE TO BE
STRONG. HE TOLD THEM TO FIGHT
LIKE HELL AND THEY BROUGHT US
HELL
ON THAT DAY. INCITED BY
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP, HIS
MOTHER ATTACKED THE CAPITOL.
THIS WAS LIVE ON TELEVISION
BEFORE A HORRIFIED NATION.
ACCORDING TO THOSE AROUND HIM,
AT THE TIME, THIS IS HOW
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
REPORTEDLY RESPONDED TO THE
ATTACK THAT WE SAW HIM INSIGHT
IN PUBLIC
, TO LIKE ENTHUSIASM, CONFUSION
AS TO WHY OTHERS AROUND HIM WERE
NOT AS HAPPY AS HE WAS. TRUMP
INSIGHT JANUARY 6th ATTACK, AND
WHEN HIS MOM OVERRAN AND
OCCUPIED THE SENATE AND ATTACKED
THE HOUSE AND ASSAULTED LAW
ENFORCEMENT, HE WATCHED ON TV
LIKE A REALITY SHOW. HE REVELED
IN IT AND HE DID NOTHING TO HELP
US AS COMMANDER IN CHIEF,
INSTEAD, HE SERVED AS THE IN
FIGHTER IN CHIEF, SENDING TWEETS
THAT ONLY FURTHER INCITED THE
RAMPAGING MOB. HE MADE
STATEMENTS LOBBY AND
SYMPATHIZING WITH THE
INSURRECTIONIST. 4:17 P.M., OVER
THREE HOURS AFTER THE BEGINNING
OF THE SEEDS, FOR THE FIRST TIME
HE SPOKE OUT LOUD, NOT ON
TWITTER, SPOKE OUT LOUD TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. HERE IS WHAT HE
SAID.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW YOUR PAIN, AND I KNOW
YOU ARE HURT
, YOU MIGHT BE SAYING ALL RIGHT,
THE PRESIDENT WILL CONSOLE US,
HE WILL REASSURE AMERICA, HE
KNOWS OUR PAIN AND WE ARE HURT.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE THE HORRIFIC IMAGES
OF OFFICERS BEING IMPALED AND
SMASHED OVER THE HEAD. WE WERE
JUST UNDER ATTACK FOR THREE
HOURS BUT THIS IS WHAT HE GOES
ON TO SAY.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW YOUR PAIN AND I KNOW
YOU ARE HURT, WE HAD AN ELECTION
THAT WAS STOLEN FROM US, IT WAS
A LANDSLIDE ELECTION AND
EVERYONE KNOWS IT, ESPECIALLY
THE OTHER SIDE.
&gt;&gt;
YOU THINK HE IS ABOUT TO DECRY
THE MAYHEM AND VIOLENCE, THE US
PRECEDENTED SPECTACLE OF THIS
MONTH ATTACK ON THE U.S. CAPITOL
, BUT HE IS STILL PROMOTING THE
BIG LIFE THAT WAS RESPONSIBLE
FOR INFLAMING AND INCITING THE
MOB IN THE FIRST PLACE.
IF ANYONE EVER HAD A DOUBT AS TO
HIS FOCUS THAT DAY, IT WAS NOT
TO DEFEND US, IT WAS NOT TO
CONSOLE US, IT WAS TO PRAISE AND
SYMPATHIZE AND COMMISERATE WITH
THE MOB. IT WAS CUT TO CONTINUE
TO ACT AS IN CHIEF, NOT
COMMANDER IN CHIEF, BY TELLING
THEM UP THERE ELECTION WAS
STOLEN FROM THEM. EVEN THEN
AFTER THE VICIOUS ATTACK, HE
CONTINUED TO SPREAD THE BIG LIFE
. AS EVERYONE HERE KNOWS, JOE
BIDEN WON BY MORE THAN 7 MILLION
VOTES AND 306 TO 232 IN THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE. DONALD TRUMP
REFUSED TO ACCEPT HER LOSS, EVEN
AFTER THIS ATTACK. HE CELEBRATED
THE PEOPLE WHO VIOLENTLY
INTERFERED WITH THE PEACEFUL
TRANSFER OF POWER FOR THE FIRST
TIME IN AMERICAN HISTORY AND
THAT THAT AT HIS URGING.
WHEN HE DID, AND THIS VIDEO
FINALLY TELL THEM TO GO HOME AND
PEACE, HE ADDED THIS MESSAGE.
&gt;&gt; WE LOVE YOU, YOU ARE VERY
SPECIAL. DISTINGUISHED MEMBERS
OF THE SENATE, THIS IS A DAY
THAT WILL LIVE IN DISGRACE IN
AMERICAN HISTORY, THAT IS UNLESS
YOU ASK DONALD TRUMP BECAUSE
THIS IS WHAT HE TWEETED BEFORE
HE WENT TO BED. AT 6:01 P.M.
, NOT CONSOLING THE NATION, NOT
REASSURING EVERYONE THAT THE
GOVERNMENT WAS SECURE, NOT A
SINGLE WORD THAT ENTIRE DAY
CONDEMNING THE VIOLENT
INSURRECTION. THAT IS WHAT HE
SAYS. THESE ARE THE THINGS AND
EVENTS THAT HAPPEN WHEN A SACRED
LANDSLIDE ELECTION VICTORY IS SO
UNCEREMONIOUSLY AND VICIOUSLY
STRIPPED AWAY FROM GREAT
PATRIOTS WHO HAVE BEEN BADLY AND
UNFAIRLY TREATED FOR SO LONG. GO
HOME WITH LOVE AND PEACE,
REMEMBER THIS DAY FOREVER. THESE
ARE THE THINGS AND EVENTS THAT
HAPPEN WHEN A SACRED LANDSLIDE
ELECTION VICTORY IS SO
UNCEREMONIOUSLY AND VICIOUSLY
STRIPPED AWAY FROM GREAT
PATRIOTS. IN OTHER WORDS, THIS
WAS ALL PERFECTLY NATURAL AND
FORESEEABLE TO DONALD TRUMP
. AT THE BEGINNING OF THE DAY,
HE TOLD YOU IT WAS COMING. AT
THE END OF THE DAY, HE SAID THIS
WOULD HAPPEN AND THEN HE ADDS,
REMEMBER THIS DAY FOREVER, BUT
NOT AS A DAY OF DISGRACE AND
HORROR AND TRAUMA, AS THE REST
OF US REMEMBER IT, BUT AS A DAY
OF CELEBRATION, A DAY OF
COMMEMORATION. IF WE LET IT BE,
IT WILL BE A DAY OF
CONTINUATION, A CALL TO ACTION
AND A RALLYING CRY FOR THE NEXT
ROUND OF INSURRECTIONARY JUSTICE
BECAUSE ALL OF THIS WAS TOTALLY
APPROPRIATE. SENATORS, THE
STAKES OF THIS TRIAL COULD NOT
BE MORE SERIOUS. EVERY AMERICAN
YOUNG AND OLD AND IN BETWEEN IS
INVITED TO PARTICIPATE WITH US
IN THE ESSENTIAL JOURNEY TO FIND
THE FACTS AND SHARE THE TRUTH.
TRIALS OR PUBLIC EVENTS IN A
DEMOCRACY AND NO TRIAL IS MY
SIGNIFICANT THEN A IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL.
BECAUSE THE INSURRECTION BROUGHT
SHOCKING VIOLENCE, BLOODSHED AND
PAIN IN THE NATION'S CAPITAL, WE
WILL BE SHOWING RELEVANT CLIPS
OF THE MONTH ATTACK ON POLICE
OFFICERS AND OTHER INNOCENT
PEOPLE. WE URGE PARENTS AND
TEACHERS TO EXERCISE CLOSE
REVIEW OF WHAT YOUNG PEOPLE ARE
WATCHING HERE AND PLEASE LET
ALONG WITH THEM IF YOU ARE
ALLOWING THEM TO WATCH. THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WILL TRY TO
THE WARNINGS THE FOR THE MOST
GRAPHIC AND DISTURBING VIOLENCE
THAT TOOK PLACE. WE BELIEVE THAT
THE MANAGERS METICULOUS
PRESENTATION WILL LEAD TO ONE
POWERFUL AND IRRESISTIBLE
CONCLUSION
, DONALD TRUMP COMMITTED A
MASSIVE CRIME AGAINST OUR
CONSTITUTION AND OUR PEOPLE AND
THE WORST VIOLATION OF THE
PRESIDENTIAL OATH OF OFFICE IN
THE HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA. FOR THIS, HE WAS
IMPEACHED BY THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES  AND HE MUST BE
CONVICTED BY THE UNITED STATES
SENATE. BEFORE I CLOSE, I WANT
TO ADDRESS A CONSTITUTIONAL
ISSUE  LINGERING FROM
YESTERDAY'S ARGUMENT.
THE PRESIDENT, OBVIOUSLY, IS
EXPLORING WAYS
TO CHANGE THE SUBJECT AND TALK
ABOUT ANYTHING OTHER THAN HAS
RESPONSIBILITY FOR INCITING
ANTI-. WE HURT A LOT YESTERDAY
ABOUT HIS CLAIM THAT WAS IN
FRONT OF THE INSURRECTION WAS
PERFECTLY APPROPRIATE BECAUSE IT
WAS SOMEHOW PROTECTED BY THE
FIRST AMENDMENT AND THE FIBERS
CAUGHT MY EYE BECAUSE I HAVE
BEEN A PROFESSOR OF
CONSTITUTIONAL LOT  IN DECADES.
THE FACTUAL PREMISE AND THE
LEGAL UNDERPINNINGS OF THAT
CLAIM ARE ALL WRONG. THEY
PRESENT PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
AS
MERELY LIKE A GUY AT A RALLY
EXPRESSING POLITICAL OPINION
THAT WE DISAGREE WITH AND NOW WE
ARE TRYING TO PUT HIM IN JAIL
FOR IT. THAT HAS NOTHING TO DO
WITH THE REALITY OF THESE
CHARGES OR HIS CONSTITUTIONAL
OFFENSE.  THE PARTICULAR
POLITICAL OPINIONS BEING
EXPRESSED ARE NOT WHY WE IMPEACH
THE PRESIDENT AND HAVE NOTHING
TO DO WITH IT. IT MAKES A
DIFFERENCE WHAT THE IDEOLOGICAL
CONTENT OF THE MOB WAS. IF WE
FORGIVE INCITEMENT TO VIOLENT
INSURRECTION BY MILITANT TRUMP
FOLLOWERS THIS WEEK, YOU CAN BE
SURE THERE WILL BE A BUNCH OF
NEW IDEOLOGICAL FLAVORS COMING
SOON.
AS WE DEMONSTRATE WITH
OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE,
PORTRAYING TRUMP AS A GUY ON THE
STREET BEING PUNISHED FOR HIS
IDEAS IS A FALSE DESCRIPTION OF
HIS ACTIONS, HIS INTENT AND THE
ROLE THAT HE PLAYED ON AND WE
FIXED WHEN HE WILLFULLY INFECTED
AN INSURRECTIONARY MOB TO WRITE
UP THE CAPITAL. LAST WEEK, 144
CONSTITUTIONAL SCHOLARS,
INCLUDING FLOYD ABRAMS, A
FEROCIOUS DEFENDER OF FREE
SPEECH, CHARLES FRIEDE,
PRESIDENT REAGAN SOLICITOR
GENERAL, STEPHEN CALABRESE, THE
COFOUNDER OF THE FEDERALIST
SOCIETY, RELEASED A STATEMENT
CALLING THE PRESIDENT'S FIRST
AMENDMENT ARGUMENT FRIVOLOUS,
LEGALLY FRIVOLOUS, ADDING WE ALL
AGREE THAT THE FIRST AMENDMENT
DOES NOT PREVENT THE SENATE FROM
CONVICTING PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP AND DISQUALIFYING HIM FROM
HOLDING FUTURE OFFICE. THEY WENT
ON TO SAY NO REASONABLE SCHOLAR
OR JURISTS CONCLUDE THAT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP HAD A
FIRST AMENDMENT RIGHT TO INCITE
A VIOLENT ATTACK ON THE SEAT OF
THE LEGISLATIVE BRANCH OR SIT
BACK AND WATCH ON TELEVISION AS
CONGRESS WAS TERRORIZED IN THE
CAPITOL.  INCITEMENT TO VIOLENCE
IS OF COURSE NOT PROTECTED BY
THE FIRST AMENDMENT. THAT IS WHY
MOST AMERICANS HAVE DISMISSED
DONALD TRUMP'S FIRST AMENDMENT
RHETORIC SIMPLY BY REFERRING TO
WENDELL HOLMES' CANDY PHRASE "
YOU CANNOT SHOOT FIRE IN A
CROWDED THEATER." EVEN THAT
PRINCIPLE DOES NOT BEGIN TO
CAPTURE HOW OFF-BASE THE
ARGUMENT IS. THIS IS MUCH WORSE
THAN SOMEONE WHO SHOUTS FIRE IN
A CROWDED THEATER. THIS IS A
CASE WHERE THE FIRE CHIEF WHO IS
PAID TO PUT OUT FIRES SUNDAY MOB
NOT TO YELL FIRE IN A CROWDED
THEATER BUT TO SET THE THEATER
ON FIRE. WHEN THE FIRE ALARMS GO
OFF AND THE CALLS START FLOODING
INTO THE FIRE DEPARTMENT, ASKING
FOR HELP, DOES NOTHING BUT SIT
BACK, ENCOURAGE THE MOB TO
CONTINUE ITS RAMPAGE AND WATCH
THE FIRE SPREAD ON TV WITH GLEE
AND THE LIGHT. WE SAY THIS FIRE
CHIEF SHOULD NOT BE ALLOWED TO
HOLD THIS PUBLIC JOB AGAIN AND
YOU ARE FIRED AND PERMANENTLY
DISQUALIFIED, AND HE OBJECTS,
AND HE SAYS WE ARE VIOLATING HIS
FREE-SPEECH RIGHTS JUST BECAUSE
HE IS PRO MOD OR PRO FIRE OR
WHATEVER IT MIGHT BE. COME ON.
YOU DON'T NEED TO GO TO LAW
SCHOOL TO FIGURE OUT WHAT IS
WRONG WITH THAT ARGUMENT. HERE
IS THE KEY, UNDOUBTEDLY, A
PRIVATE PERSON CAN RUN AROUND ON
THE STREET EXPRESSING HIS OR HER
SUPPORT FOR ENEMIES OF THE
UNITED DATES AND ADVOCATING THE
OVERTHROW OF THE UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT. YOU HAVE A RIGHT TO
DO THAT UNDER THE FIRST
AMENDMENT BUT IF THE PRESIDENT
SPENT ALL OF HIS DAYS DOING THAT
ENTERING THE EXACT SAME WORDS,
EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
ENEMIES OF THE UNITED STATES AND
OVERTHROWING THE GOVERNMENT, IS
THERE ANYONE HERE WHO DOUBT THAT
THIS WOULD BE A VIOLATION OF HIS
OATH OF OFFICE TO PRESERVE,
PROTECT AND PROTECT THE
CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED
STATES AND THAT HE OR SHE COULD
BE IMPEACHED FOR DOING THAT?
AS THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES, YOU HAVE CHOSEN A SIDE
OF THE OATH OF OFFICE AND IF YOU
BREAK THAT, WE CAN IMPEACH,
REMOVE AND DISQUALIFY YOU
PERMANENTLY FROM HOLDING ANY
OFFICE UNDER THE UNITED STATES.
AS JUSTICE SCALIA ONCE SAID,
MEMORABLY, YOU CANNOT RIDE WITH
THE COPS AND ROOT FOR THE
ROBBERS. IF YOU BECOME IN SITU
IN CHIEF TO THE INSURRECTION,
YOU CANNOT EXPECT TO BE ON THE
PAYROLL AS COMMANDER IN CHIEF
FOR THE UNION. TRUMP WAS THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
AND HE HAD SWORN TO PRESERVE,
PROTECT THE CONSTITUTION. HE HAD
A AFFIRMATIVE BINDING DUTY, ONE
THAT SET HIM APART FROM EVERYONE
ELSE IN THE COUNTRY TO TAKE CARE
THAT THE LAWS BE FAITHFULLY
EXECUTED.
INCLUDING ALL THE LAWS AGAINST
ASSAULTING FEDERAL OFFICERS,
DESTROYING FEDERAL PROPERTY, THE
ONLY THREATENING MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS AND THE VICE PRESIDENT
INTERFERING WITH FEDERAL
ELECTIONS AND DOZENS OF OTHER
FEDERAL LAWS THAT ARE WELL KNOWN
TO ALL OF YOU. WHEN HE INVITED
INSURRECTION ON JANUARY 6, HE
BROKE THAT OATH. HE VIOLATED
THAT DUTY. THAT IS WHY WE ARE
HERE TODAY. THAT IS WHY HE HAS
NO CREDIBLE CONSTITUTIONAL
DEFENSE. I WILL TELL YOU A FINAL
SAD STORY IN THIS KALEIDOSCOPE
OF SADNESS AND TERROR AND
VIOLENCE. ONE OF OUR CAPITOL
OFFICERS
WHO DEFENDED US THAT DAY WAS A
LONGTIME VETERAN OF OUR FORCE, A
BRAVE AND HONORABLE PUBLIC
SERVANT WHO SPENT SEVERAL HOURS
BATTLING THE MOB AS PART OF ONE
OF THOSE BLUE LINES DESCENDING
THE CAPITAL IN OUR DEMOCRACY.
FOR SEVERAL HOURS STRAIGHT, AS
THE MARAUDERS PUNCHED AND KICKED
AND MULLED AND SPIT UPON AND HIT
OFFICERS WITH BASEBALL BATS AND
FIRE EXTINGUISHERS, CURSED THE
COPS AND STORMED OUR CAPITOL, HE
DEFENDED US  AND HE LIVED EVERY
MINUTE OF HIS OATH OF OFFICE.
AFTERWARDS, OVERWHELMED BY
EMOTION, HE BROKE DOWN IN THE
ROTUNDA. HE CRIED FOR 15
MINUTES. HE SHOUTED OUT, "
CALLED A LETTER AND WORD 15
TIMES TODAY."
THEN HE RECORDED I SAT DOWN WITH
ONE OF MY BUDDIES, ANOTHER BLACK
GUY IN TEARS STARTED STREAMING
DOWN MY FACE AND I SAID, WHAT
THE F, MEN. IS THIS AMERICA?
THAT IS THE QUESTION BEFORE ALL
OF YOU IN THIS TRIAL, IS THIS
AMERICA? IN OUR COUNTRY AND OUR
DEMOCRACY EVER BE THE SAME IF WE
DO NOT HOLD ACCOUNTABLE THE
PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR INCITING
THE VIOLENT ATTACK AGAINST OUR
COUNTRY, OUR CAPITAL AND
DEMOCRACY AND ALL OF THOSE WHO
SERVE US SO FAITHFULLY AND
HONORABLY, IS THIS AMERICA?
MR. NANDU'S WILL NOW PROVIDE A
ROADMAP OF OUR EVIDENTIARY CASE.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, DISTINGUISHED
SENATORS, COUNSEL, LIKE SEVERAL
OF YOU, I AM A CHILD OF
IMMIGRANTS. AS A SON OF
IMMIGRANTS, I BELIEVE, FIRMLY IN
MY HEART, THAT THE UNITED STATES
IS THE GREATEST REPUBLIC THAT
THIS WORLD HAS EVER KNOWN. A
HALLMARK OF OUR REPUBLIC SINCE
THE DAYS OF GEORGE WASHINGTON
HAS BEEN THE PEACEFUL TRANSFER
OF POWER. FOR CENTURIES, WE HAVE
ACCEPTED THIS AS FACT.
UNFORTUNATELY, SADLY, WE
NOW THAT WE CAN NO LONGER TAKE
THAT FOR GRANTED BECAUSE AS LEAD
MANAGER RASKIN EXPLAINED ON
JANUARY 6, THE PEACEFUL
TRANSITION OF POWER WAS
VIOLENTLY INTERRUPTED WHEN A MOB
STORMED THIS CAPITAL AND
DESECRATED THIS CHAMBER. AS YOU
WILL SEE DURING THE COURSE OF
THIS TRIAL, THAT MOB WAS
SUMMONED, ASSEMBLED AND INCITED
BY THE FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, DONALD TRUMP. HE
DID THAT BECAUSE HE WANTED TO
STOP THE TRANSFER OF POWER SO
THAT HE COULD RETAIN POWER, EVEN
THOUGH HE HAD LOST THE ELECTION.
WHEN THE VIOLENCE ERUPTED, THEY
WERE HERE IN OUR BUILDING WITH
WEAPONS, HE DID NOTHING TO STOP
IT. IF WE ARE TO PROTECT OUR
REPUBLIC AND PREVENT SOMETHING
LIKE THIS FROM EVER HAPPENING
AGAIN, HE MUST BE CONVICTED. I
WANT TO BE VERY CLEAR ABOUT WHAT
WE WILL SHOW YOU DURING THE
COURSE OF THIS TRIAL. AS MY
FELLOW MANAGERS PRESENT OUR CASE
TO YOU TODAY, TONIGHT, TOMORROW,
IT WILL BE HELPFUL TO THINK
ABOUT PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S
INCITEMENT OF INSURRECTION IN
THREE DISTINCT PARTS. THE
ATTACK, THE PROVOCATION, THE
ATTACK, AND THE HARM. LET'S
START WITH THE PROVOCATION. WE
WILL SHOW, DURING THE COURSE OF
THIS TRIAL, THAT THIS ATTACK WAS
PROVOKED BY THE PRESIDENT,
INCITED BY THE PRESIDENT. AS A
RESULT, IT WAS PREDICTABLE AND
IT WAS FORESEEABLE. OF COURSE
THAT MAKES SENSE. THIS MOB WAS
WELL ORCHESTRATED, THEIR CONDUCT
WAS INTENTIONAL, THEY DID IT ALL
IN PLAIN SIGHT, PROBABLY,
OPENLY, AND LOUDLY. THEY
BELIEVED, THEY TRULY BELIEVED
THAT THEY WERE DOING THIS FOR
HIM, THAT THIS WAS THEIR
PATRIOTIC DUTY. THEY EVEN
PREDICTED THAT HE WOULD PROTECT
THEM. FOR THE MOST PART, THEY
WERE RIGHT, IN HIS UNIQUE ROLE
AS COMMANDER IN CHIEF OF OUR
COUNTRY, AND AS THE ONE PERSON
THAT THE MOB WAS LISTENING TO
AND FOLLOWING ORDERS FROM
, HE HAD THE POWER TO STOP IT,
AND HE DID NOT.
SOME HAVE SAID THAT PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP'S REMARKS SPEECH ON
JANUARY 6th WAS JUST A SPEECH.
LET ME ASK YOU THIS, WHEN IN OUR
HISTORY HAS A SPEECH LED
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE TO STORM OUR
NATIONS CAPITOL  WITH WEAPONS?
SCALING THE WALLS AND BREAK
WINDOWS, KILL A CAPITOL POLICE
OFFICER ? THIS WAS NOT JUST A
SPEECH
, IT DID NOT JUST HAPPEN. AS YOU
EVALUATE THE FACTS THAT WE
PRESENT TO YOU, IT WILL BECOME
CLEAR
CAME FROM. HERE IS THE THING,
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S WORDS,
AS YOU WILL SEE, ON JANUARY 6th,
AND THAT SPEECH, JUST LIKE THE
MOBS ACTIONS WERE NOT CAREFULLY
CHOSEN, THOSE WORDS HAVE A
SPECIFIC MEANING TO THAT CROWD
AND HOW DO WE KNOW THIS? WE KNOW
THIS BECAUSE IN THE WEEKS PRIOR
TO, DURING, AND AFTER THE
ELECTION, HE USED THE SAME WORDS
OVER AND OVER AND OVER AGAIN.
YOU WILL HEAR, OVER AND OVER,
THREE THINGS, YOU CAN SEE THEM
ON THE SCREENS. FIRST, WHAT LEAD
MANAGER RASKIN REFERRED TO AS
THE ELECTION WAS STOLEN, FULL OF
FRAUD, RIGGED. YOU WILL HEAR,
OVER AND OVER, HIM USING THAT
LIKE TO URGE HIS SUPPORTERS TO
NEVER CONCEDE AND STOP THE
STEEL. FINALLY, YOU WILL HEAR
THE CALL TWO ARMS THAT IT WAS
HIS SUPPORTERS PATRIOTIC DUTY TO
FIGHT LIKE
HELL TO DO WHAT, TO STOP THE
STEEL, TO STOP THE ELECTION FROM
BEING STOLEN BY SHOWING UP IN
THIS CHAMBER, TO STOP YOU, TO
STOP US. I RESPECTFULLY ASK THAT
YOU REMEMBER THOSE THREE PHRASES
AS YOU CONSIDER THE EVIDENCE
TODAY. ELECTION WAS STOLEN, STOP
THE STEAL , AND FIGHT LIKE HELL
BECAUSE THEY DID NOT JUST APPEAR
ON JANUARY 6th. LET ME SHOW YOU
WHAT I MEAN. LET'S START WITH
THE BIG LIE. YOU WILL SEE,
DURING THIS TRIAL, THAT THE
PRESENT REALIZED REALLY BY LAST
SPRING THAT HE COULD LOSE, HE
MIGHT LOSE THE ELECTION. WHAT
DID HE DO? HE STARTED PLANTING
THE SEEDS TO GET SOME OF HIS
SUPPORTERS READY BY SAYING THAT
HE COULD LOSE THE ELECTION IF IT
WAS STOLEN. IN OTHER WORDS, WHAT
HE DID WAS CREATE A LOOSE
SCENARIO, EITHER HE WON THE
ELECTION, OR HE WOULD HAVE SOME
ANGRY SUPPORTERS, NOT ALL, BUT
SOME WHO BELIEVED THAT IF HE
LOST, THE ELECTION HAD TO BE
RIGGED AND THEY WOULD BE ANGRY
. HE WAS TELLING AMERICANS THAT
THEIR VOTE WAS STOLEN. IN
AMERICA, OUR VOTE IS OUR VOICE.
HIS FALSE CLAIMS ABOUT ELECTION
FRAUD, THAT WAS THE DRUMBEAT
BEING USED TO INSPIRE, INSTIGATE
, AND IGNITE THEM, TO ANGER THEM
. WATCH THIS CLIP.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE NOT GOING TO LET THIS
ELECTION BE TAKEN AWAY FROM US.
THAT'S THE ONLY WAY THEY WILL
WIN. WE WILL NOT LET THEM. IT'S
THE ONLY WAY WE CAN LOSE, IN MY
OPINION, IS MASSIVE FRAUD.
&gt;&gt; WE ALL KNOW WHAT HAPPENED
AFTER THAT, HE LOST. HE LOST THE
ELECTION. BUT, REMEMBER HE HAD
NO LOSE SCENARIO THAT I
REFERENCED EARLIER. HE TOLD HIS
BASE THAT THE ELECTION WAS
STOLEN, AS HE HAD FORECASTED.
THEN, HE TOLD THEM YOUR ELECTION
HAS BEEN STOLEN, BUT YOU CANNOT
CONCEDE, YOU MUST STOP THE
STEAL.
&gt;&gt; YOU CANNOT LET ANOTHER PERSON
STEAL THAT ELECTION FOR YOU. ALL
OVER THE COUNTRY, PEOPLE ARE
TOGETHER IN HOLDING UP SIGNS
"TRAN19." THE DEMOCRATS ARE
TRYING TO STEAL THE WHITE HOUSE.
YOU CANNOT LET THEM, YOU CANNOT
LET THEM.
&gt;&gt; WHILE HE IS INCITING THE
SUPPORTERS, HE IS SIMULTANEOUSLY
DOING EVERYTHING HE POSSIBLY CAN
TO OVERTURN THE ELECTION. FIRST
HE BEGINS WITH THE COURTS, A
LEGITIMATE AVENUE, LEGITIMATE
AVENUE TO CHALLENGE THE ELECTION
, BUT, HE IGNORES ALL OF THEIR
ADVERSE RULINGS WHEN ALL HAVE
HIS CLAIMS ARE THROWN OUT. THEN,
HE MOVES ON TO PRESSURE STATE
ELECTION OFFICIALS TO BLOCK THE
ELECTION RESULTS FOR HIS
OPPONENT, EVEN THOUGH HE LOST IN
THEIR STATES. YOU WILL HEAR MY
FELLOW MANAGERS DISCUSSED THAT
IN DETAIL. THEN HE TRIES TO
THREATEN STATE ELECTION
OFFICIALS TO CHANGE THE VOTES,
TO MAKE HIM THE WINNER, EVEN
THREATENING CRIMINAL PENALTIES
IF THEY REFUSED. HE HAD THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT INVESTIGATE
HIS CLAIMS. EVEN THEY FOUND NO
SUPPORT FOR THOSE CLAIMS. HE
TRIED TO PERSUADE SOME MEMBERS
OF HIS PARTY AND CONGRESS TO
BLOCK THE CERTIFICATION OF HIS
VOTE WITH ATTACKS AND PUBLIC
FORUMS. WHEN THAT FAILED, HE
TRIED TO INTIMIDATE THE VICE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO REFUSED TO CERTIFY
THE VOTE AND SEND IT BACK TO THE
STATES. NONE OF IT WORKED. SO
WHAT DOES HE DO? WITH HIS BACK
AGAINST THE WALL, WHEN ALL ELSE
HAS FAILED, HE TURNS BACK
TO HIS SUPPORTERS WHO HE ALREADY
SPENT MONTHS TELLING THEM THAT
THE ELECTION WAS STOLEN, AND HE
AMPLIFIED AN
FURTHER, HE AND THE IT UP A
NOTCH. HE TOLD THEM THAT THEY
HAD TO BE READY NOT TO JUST
"STOP THE STEAL"  HELLBUT TO
FIGHT LIKE
HELL
.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL NEVER SURRENDER, WE
WILL ONLY WHEN. NOW IS NOT THE
TIME TO RETREAT, NOW IS THE TIME
TO FIGHT HARDER THAN EVER
BEFORE. WE HAVE TO GO ALL THE
WAY AND LOOK AT THEM FIGHT LIKE
HELL
. WE WILL NOT FIGHT WE WILL NOT
BREAK, WE WILL NEVER GIVE UP, WE
WILL NEVER BACK DOWN, WE WILL
NEVER EVER SURRENDER.
&gt;&gt; YOU WILL SEE THAT IN THE
MONTHS THE PRESIDENT
STATEMENTS, PEOPLE LISTENED,
ARMED SUPPORTERS SURROUNDED
ELECTION OFFICIALS HOMES.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE, FOR
GEORGIA, THAT DEATH THREATS.
OFFICIALS WARNED THE PRESIDENT
THAT HIS RHETORIC WAS DANGEROUS
AND IT WAS GOING TO RESULT IN
DEADLY VIOLENCE. THAT IS WHAT
MAKES THIS SO DIFFERENT BECAUSE
WHEN HE SAW, FIRST-HAND HAND,
THE VIOLENCE THAT HIS CONDUCT
WAS CREATING, HE DID NOT STOP IT
. HE COULD NOT CONDEMN THE
VIOLENCE, HE INVITED IT FURTHER.
HE GOT MORE SPECIFIC. HE DID NOT
JUST TELL THEM TO FIGHT LIKE
HELL, HE TOLD THEM WHERE AND
WHEN. HE MADE SURE HE HAD 18
DAYS ADVANCED NOTICE. HE SENT
HIS SAVE THE DATE FOR JANUARY
6th. HE TOLD THEM TO MARCH TO
THE CAPITOL AND  FIGHT LIKE HELL
.
AS RASKIN SAID THE SAME DAY WE
WERE CERTIFYING THE ELECTION
RESULTS, WHAT TIME WAS THAT
RALLY SCHEDULED FOR? THE EXACT
SAME TIME THAT THIS CHAMBER WAS
CERTIFYING THE ELECTION RESULTS
IN JOINT SESSION. WHEN DID HE
CONCLUDE HIS SPEECH? LITERALLY
MOMENTS BEFORE SPEAKER PELOSI
HAD GAMBLED US INTO SESSION.
MANY OF US WERE IN THE HOUSE
DURING THAT JOINT SESSION OF
CONGRESS. I WAS SITTING TWO ROWS
BEHIND LEADER SCHUMER AND LEADER
McCONNELL. I REMEMBER IT
VIVIDLY. AS WE WERE STANDING
THERE FULFILLING OUR SOLEMN OATH
TO THE CONSTITUTION, THE
PRESIDENT WAS FINISHING HIS
SPEECH A COUPLE MILES AWAY. HOW
DID HE CONCLUDE THAT INFAMOUS
SPEECH? WITH A FINAL CALL TO
ACTION, HE TOLD THEM TO MARCH
DOWN PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE TO COME
HERE
, THAT IT WAS THEIR PATRIOTIC
DUTY BECAUSE THE ELECTION HAD
BEEN STOLEN. WHEN THEY HEARD HIS
SPEECH, THEY UNDERSTOOD HIS
WORDS AND WHAT THEY MEANT
BECAUSE THEY HAD HEARD IT BEFORE
. LET'S JUST TAKE A MINUTE AND
REALLY LOOK AT HIS WORDS ON
JANUARY 6th AS HE SPOKE AT THE
FIFTH AMERICA RALLY. REMEMBER, I
TOLD YOU YOU WILL HEAR THREE
PHASES, THE ELECTION WAS STOLEN,
STOP THE STEAL AND  FIGHT LIKE
HELL.  LET'S START WITH THE
FIRST PHRASE.
&gt;&gt; ALL OF US HERE TODAY DO NOT
WANT TO SEE OUR ELECTION VICTORY
STOLEN. SAPIR THEFT IN AMERICAN
HISTORY, EVERYBODY KNOWS IT'S.
MAKE NO MISTAKE THIS ELECTION
WAS STOLEN FROM YOU, FROM ME AND
FROM THE COUNTRY.
&gt;&gt; OF COURSE EACH OF YOU HEARD
THOSE WORDS BEFORE, SO HAD THE
CROWD. THE PRESIDENT HAD SPENT
MONTHS TELLING HIS SUPPORTERS
THAT THE ELECTION WAS STOLEN,
AND HE USED THIS SPEECH TO
INCITE THEM FURTHER, TO INFLAME
THEM TO STOP THE STEAL,  TO STOP
THE CERTIFICATION OF THE
ELECTION RESULTS.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL NEVER GIVE UP, WE
WILL NEVER COMES. IT DOES NOT
HAPPEN. YOU DO NOT CONCEDE WHEN
THERE IS THEFT INVOLVED. TO USE
A FAVORITE TERM THAT ALL OF YOU
PEOPLE REALLY CAME UP WITH, WE
WILL STOP THE STEAL . WE MUST
STOP THE STEAL .
&gt;&gt; FINALLY, THE PRESIDENT USED
THIS SPEECH AS A CALL TO ARMS.
IT WAS NOT RHETORICAL. SOME OF
HIS SUPPORTERS HAD BEEN PRIMED
FOR THIS OVER MANY MONTHS. AS
YOU WILL LEARN, DATED THE FOR
THIS SPEECH, AS LEAD MANAGER
RASKIN NOTED, THERE WERE VAST
REPORTS ACROSS ALL MEDIA OUTLETS
THAT THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WOULD
BE ARMED AND THAT WOULD BE
VIOLENT. YOU WILL LEARN THAT
CAPITOL POLICE AND THE FBI
REPORTED IN THE DAYS LEADING UP
TO THE ATTACK THAT THOUSANDS AND
THE CROWD WOULD BE TARGETING THE
CAPITOL SPECIFICALLY, THAT THEY
HAD ARRESTED PEOPLE WITH  GUNS
THE NIGHT BEFORE THE ATTACK ON
WEAPONS CHARGES. THIS IS WHAT
OUR COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF SAID TO
THE CROWD IN THE FACE OF THOSE
WARNINGS RIGHT BEFORE THEY CAME
HERE.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL NOT LET THEM SILENT
YOUR VOICES. WE WILL NOT LET
THAT HAPPEN. NOT GOING TO LET
THAT HAPPEN.
THANK YOU. YOU HAVE TO GET YOUR
PEOPLE TO FIGHT BECAUSE YOU WILL
NEVER TAKE BACK OUR COUNTRY WITH
WEAKNESS, YOU HAVE TO SHOW
STRENGTH AND YOU HAVE TO BE
STRONG. WE FIGHT, WE
FIGHT LIKE HELL. IF YOU DON'T
FIGHT LIKE HELL, YOU WILL NOT
HAVE A COUNTRY ANYMORE.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE TO GET YOUR PEOPLE
TO FIGHT, HE TOLD THEM.
SENATORS, THIS CLEARLY WAS NOT
JUST ONE SPEECH, IT DID NOT JUST
HAPPEN. IT WAS PART OF A
CAREFULLY PLANNED MONTH-LONG
EFFORT WITH A VERY SPECIFIC IN
STRUCTURE, SHOW UP ON JANUARY 6
AND GET YOUR PEOPLE TO FIGHT THE
CERTIFICATION. HE INCITED IT. IT
WAS FORESEEABLE. AGAIN,
YOU DON'T HAVE TO TAKE MY WORD
FOR IT. BE PRESIDENT'S FORMER
CHIEF OF STAFF, THE RETIRED
MARINE, FOUR-STAR GENERAL, WAS
CONFIRMED BY THIS MONEY TO THE
SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY
OVERWHELMING VOTE. BATMAN WAS
JOHN KELLY. ON THE DAY AFTER THE
INSURRECTION, HE SAID THIS.
&gt;&gt; THE PRESIDENT KNOWS WHO HE IS
TALKING TO WHEN HE TWEETS OR
MAKES STATEMENTS. HE KNOWS WHO
HE IS TALKING TO. HE KNOWS WHAT
HE WANTS THEM TO DO. THE FACT HE
HAS BEEN SAYING THE THINGS HE
HAS BEEN SAYING SINCE THE
ELECTION, ENCOURAGING PEOPLE
WHICH IS NO SURPRISE AT WHAT
HAPPENED YESTERDAY.
&gt;&gt; NO SURPRISE, THINK ABOUT
THAT, NO SURPRISE. THE PRESIDENT
HAD EVERY REASON TO KNOW THAT
THIS WOULD HAPPEN. HE ASSEMBLED
THE MOM, HE SUMMONED THE MOB AND
HE INCITED THE MOB. HE KNEW WHEN
HE TOOK THAT PODIUM ON THAT
FATEFUL MORNING, THAT THOSE IN
ATTENDANCE HAD HEARD HIS WORDS
AND THEY WERE WAITING FOR HIS
ORDERS TO BEGIN FIGHTING. THAT
OF COURSE BRINGS ME MY FELLOW
MANAGERS TO WHAT HAPPENED HERE
IN THIS BUILDING. AS LEAD
MANAGER RASKIN STATED, MY
COLLEAGUES ARE GOING TO WALK
THROUGH THE EVENTS OF JANUARY
SIXTH AND THE EVIDENCE IN VERY
GREAT DETAIL. THEY ARE PAINFUL
TO WATCH AND RECOUNT, I WILL NOT
REPEAT THE EVIDENCE NOW BUT I DO
WANT TO BE CLEAR ABOUT WHAT ALSO
HAPPENED DURING THAT TERRIBLE
ATTACK. PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP,
ONCE AGAIN, FAILED US. WHEN THE
VIOLENCE ERUPTED
, WHEN WE AND THE LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS PROTECTING
US, PROTECTING YOU WERE UNDER
ATTACK
AS EACH OF YOU WERE BEING
EVACUATED FROM THIS CHAMBER FROM
A VIOLENT MOB AS WE WERE BEING
EVACUATED FROM THE HOUSE, HE
COULD HAVE IMMEDIATELY, AND
FORCEFULLY, INTERVENED TO STOP
THE VIOLENCE. IT WAS HIS DUTY AS
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF TO STOP THE
VIOLENCE, AND HE, ALONE, HAD
THAT POWER
, NOT JUST BECAUSE OF HIS UNIQUE
ROLE OF COMMANDER IN CHIEF, BUT
BECAUSE THEY BELIEVED THAT THEY
WERE FOLLOWING HIS ORDERS. THEY
SAID SO.
&gt;&gt; FIGHT FT. DRUM, FIGHT FOR
TRUMP, FIGHT FOR TRUMP!
WE ARE GOING BY THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES!
&gt;&gt; I THOUGHT I WAS FOLLOWING MY
PRESIDENT AND WHAT WE WERE
CALLED TO DO. PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP REQUESTED THAT WE BE IN DC
ON THE SIXTH.
&gt;&gt; YOU HEARD IT FROM THEM
WERE DOING WHAT HE WANTED THEM
TO DO. THEY WOULD NOT HAVE
LISTENED TO YOU,
TO ME, TO THE VICE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES, THEY WERE
ATTACKING, THEY DID NOT STOP IN
THE FACE OF LAW ENFORCEMENT,
POLICE OFFICERS FIGHTING FOR
THEIR LIVES TO STOP THEM, THEY
WERE FOLLOWING THE PRESIDENT. HE
ALONE, OUR COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF,
HAD THE POWER TO STOP IT. HE DID
NOT. YOU WILL HEAR EVIDENCE
TONIGHT, TOMORROW, THROUGHOUT
THE TRIAL ABOUT HIS REFUSAL AS
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF TO RESPOND TO
NUMEROUS, DESPERATE PLEAS ON THE
PHONE, ACROSS SOCIAL MEDIA,
BEGGING HIM TO STOP THE ATTACK.
YOU WILL SEE HIS RELENTLESS
ATTACK ON VICE PRESIDENT PENCE,
WHO WAS AT THAT VERY MOMENT
HIDING WITH HIS FAMILY AS ARMED
EXTREMIST WERE CHANTING "HANG
MIKE PENCE." CALLING HIM A
TRAITOR. YOU WILL SEE THAT EVEN
WHEN HE DID FINALLY, 3 1/2 HOURS
INTO THE ATTACK, TELL THESE
PEOPLE TO GO HOME, IN PEACE, HE
ADDED, AS LEAD MANAGER RASKIN
SAID, I WILL QUOTE " YOU ARE
VERY SPECIAL. WE LOVE YOU."
THINK FOR A MOMENT,
A MOMENT OF THE LIVES LOST THAT
DAY, OF THE MORE THAN 140
WOUNDED POLICE OFFICERS AND ASK
YOURSELF IF AS SOON AS THIS HAD
STARTED, PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
HAD SIMPLY GONE ON TO TV, JUST
LOG ONTO TWITTER AND SAID STOP
THE ATTACK. IF HE HAD DONE SO
WITH EVEN HALF AS MUCH FORCE AS
HE SAID STOP THE STEAL , HOW
MANY LIVES WOULD WE HAVE SAVED?
SADLY, HE DID NOT DO THAT. AT
THE END OF THE DAY, THE
PRESIDENT WAS NOT SUCCESSFUL IN
STOPPING THE CERTIFICATION.
THANKS TO THE BRAVERY OF OUR LAW
ENFORCEMENT INTO THE BRAVERY OF
THE SENATORS IN THIS ROOM, EACH
OF YOU WHO STILL FULFILLED YOUR
CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY, EVEN UNDER
THE THREAT OF MORTAL PERIL, BUT
THERE CAN BE NO DOUBT OF THE
GREAT HARM HE CAUSED
TO OUR ELECTED LEADERS, TO US,
OUR FAMILIES, TO ALL WHO WORK IN
THE CAPITOL,  OUR STAFF, YOUR
STAFF, TO OUR BRIEF CAPITOL
POLICE WHO DEFEND US TIRELESSLY
WITH LITTLE THANKS, WHO BELIEVED
THAT THEY HAD A
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF THAT WOULD
DEFEND AND PROTECT THEM BUT
INSTEAD PUT THEM IN HARM'S WAY,
TO THOSE KILLED FOR HEATING HIS
COMMAND, TO OUR DEMOCRACY AND
THE SYSTEM, WHICH ENSURES THAT
WE HAD A PRESIDENT ELECTED BY
THE PEOPLE. OUR NATIONAL
SECURITY AND OUR STANDING IN THE
WORLD, THE HARM WAS REAL, THAT
DAMAGE WAS REAL.
LOST THEIR LIVES ON THAT
TERRIBLE TRAGIC DAY. A WOMAN WAS
SHOT DEAD, 50 FEET FROM WHERE WE
LAID OUR CERTIFIED
RESULTS. FOR THOSE WHO QUESTION
JUST HOW BAD IT WAS, CRIMINAL
COMPLAINTS RECENTLY UNSEALED BY
THE JUSTICE ARE MORE THAN
REVEALING. YOU WILL SEE ONE OF
THESE DOCUMENTS ON THE SCREEN
. AND THE CHARGING AFFIDAVIT OF
ONE OF THE PROBABLY, WE LEARNED
MEMBERS OF HIS GROUP SAID I WILL
QUOTE, "THEY WOULD HAVE KILLED
MIKE PENCE IF GIVEN THE CHANCE."
AND ANOTHER, WE LEARNED OF A
TREAT, IN REAL TIME, WHILE THEY
WERE IN THE BUILDING, STATING,
"WE BROKE INTO THE CAPITAL. WE
GOT INSIDE, WE DID OUR PART. WE
WERE LOOKING FOR NANCY PELOSI TO
SHOOT HER IN THE FREAKING BRAIN
BUT WE DID NOT FIND HER." FOR
ANYONE WHO SUGGESTS OTHERWISE
, THESE DEFENDANTS, THEMSELVES,
HAVE TOLD YOU EXACTLY WHY THEY
WERE HERE. YOU WILL SEE THIS IN
THE TRIAL THAT IN THE HALLS OF
THE CAPITOL , ON SOCIAL MEDIA,
IN NEWS INTERVIEWS AND CHARGING
DOCUMENTS, THEY CONFIRM THEY
WERE FOLLOWING THE PRESIDENT'S
ORDERS. YOU CAN SEE SOME OF THE
STATEMENTS ON SCREEN. ONE SAID
TRUMP WANTS ALL ABLE-BODIED
PATRIOTS, ANOTHER THAT PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP IS CALLING US TO
FIGHT, THIS IS NOT A JOKE.
ANOTHER ONE, I THOUGHT I WAS
FOLLOWING MY PRESIDENT. I
THOUGHT I WAS FOLLOWING WHAT WE
WERE CALLED TO DO. OUR PRESIDENT
WANTS US HERE. WE WAIT AND TAKE
ORDERS FROM THE PRESIDENT. HE
MADE THEM BELIEVE OVER MANY
WEEKS THAT THE ELECTION WAS
STOLEN AND THEY WERE FOLLOWING
HIS COMMAND TO TAKE BACK THEIR
COUNTRY.
AS I PREPARED FOR TODAY,
YESTERDAY, THIS TRIAL, WHY
MEMORY I COULD NOT SHAKE WHICH
WAS ON THE NIGHT OF JANUARY 6th,
AND THE FEELING OF WALKING BACK
ONTO THE HOUSE FLOOR AND SEEING
MANY OF YOU THERE. I REMEMBER US
FINISHING OUR TASK AT 4:00 IN
THE MORNING. AS I WALKED OFF OF
THE FLOOR, I WAS SO GRATEFUL, SO
GRATEFUL FOR THE OPPORTUNITY TO
THANK THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, MIKE PENCE, FOR
HIS ACTIONS, FOR STANDING BEFORE
US AND ASKING US TO FOLLOW OUR
OATH AND OUR FAITH AND OUR DUTY
. WE ONLY HAVE A COUPLE OF HOURS
OF SLEEP THAT MORNING. EARLY THE
NEXT DAY, I CALLED MY DAD WHO
CAME TO THIS COUNTRY, AS I
MENTIONED, AS AN IMMIGRANT 40
YEARS AGO. I TOLD HIM THAT THE
PROUDEST MOMENT BY FAR OF
SERVING IN CONGRESS, FOR ME, WAS
GOING BACK ONTO THE FLOOR WITH
EACH OF YOU TO FINISH THE WORK
THAT WE HAD STARTED. I AM
HUMBLED TO BE BACK WITH
TODAY AND JUST AS ON JANUARY 6th
WHEN WE OVERCAME THE ATTACK ON
OUR CAPITOL  AND OUR COUNTRY, I
AM HOPEFUL THAT AT THIS TRIAL,
WE CAN USE OUR RESOLVE AND OUR
RESILIENCE TO, AGAIN, UPHOLD OUR
DEMOCRACY BY FAITHFULLY APPLYING
THE LAW, VINDICATING THE
CONSTITUTION, INCLUDING
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
ACCOUNTABLE FOR HIS ACTIONS.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS, REPRESENTATIVES
JOAQUIN CASTRO AND ERIC SWELL
WILL NOW SHOW THE EVIDENCE OF
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S LONG
CAMPAIGN TO DELEGITIMIZE HIS
ELECTORAL DEFEAT AND GALVANIZE
HIS SUPPORTERS TO HELP HIM
RETAIN HIS POWER AT ANY COST. WE
WILL GO STEP-BY-STEP AND EXPLAIN
THE PROGRESSION OF THE WEIGHT UP
UNTIL THE ATTACK.
&gt;&gt; GOOD AFTERNOON, MY NAME IS
JOAQUIN CASTRO TO REPRESENT SAN
ANTONIO IN THE UNITED STATES
CONGRESS. THERE IS A SAYING THAT
A LIE CAN TRAVEL HALFWAY AROUND
THE WORLD BEFORE THE TRUTH HAS A
CHANCE TO PUT ON ITS SHOES. THAT
WAS BEFORE THE INTERNET. THE
POINT OF THAT SAYING IS THE LIE
CAN DO INCREDIBLE DAMAGE AND
DESTRUCTION AND THAT IS
ESPECIALLY TRUE WHEN THAT LINE
IS TOLD BY THE MOST POWERFUL
PERSON ON EARTH, OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF, THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES .
THIS ATTACK DID NOT COME FROM
ONE SPEECH, IT DID NOT HAPPEN BY
ACCIDENT. THE EVIDENCE SHOWS,
CLEARLY, THAT THIS MOB WAS
PROVOKED OVER MANY MONTHS BY
DONALD J TRUMP. IF YOU LOOK AT
THE EVIDENCE, HIS PURPOSEFUL
CONDUCT, YOU WILL SEE THE ATTACK
WAS FORESEEABLE, AND PREVENTABLE
. I WILL START BY DISCUSSING
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S ACTIONS
LEADING UP TO THE ELECTION, WHEN
HE SET UP HIS BIG LINE.
BEGINNING IN THE SPRING OF 2020,
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP BEGAN TO
FALL BEHIND IN THE POLLS. BY
JULY, PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP HAD
REACHED A NEW LOW, HE WAS
RUNNING 15 POINTS BEHIND HIS
OPPONENT. HE WAS SCARED. HE
BEGAN TO BELIEVE HE COULD
LEGITIMATELY LOSE THE ELECTION.
HE DID SOMETHING ENTIRELY
UNPRECEDENTED IN THE HISTORY OF
OUR NATION, HE REFUSED TO COMMIT
TO A PEACEFUL TRANSITION OF
POWER. HERE IS WHAT HE SAID.
&gt;&gt; CAN YOU GIVE
A DIRECT ANSWER, YOU WILL ACCEPT
THE ELECTION?
&gt;&gt; I AM NOT GOING TO SAY YES.
THERE IS A PEACEFUL TRANSFER OF
POWER?
&gt;&gt; GET RID OF THE BALLOTS AND WE
WILL HAVE A PEACEFUL ONE. THERE
WILL BE A CONTINUATION.
&gt;&gt; SENATORS, THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES SAID " I WILL
NOT BE A TRANSITION OF POWER
THERE WON'T BE A TRANSITION OF
POWER, THERE WILL BE A
CONTINUATION
. PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS GIVEN
EVERY OPPORTUNITY TO TELL
SUPPORTERS, IF I LOSE,
I WILL PEACEFULLY TRANSFER POWER
TO THE NEXT PRESIDENT. INSTEAD,
HE TOLD SUPPORTERS THE ONLY WAY
HE COULD LOSE THE ELECTION AS IF
IT WAS STOLEN. IN TWEET AFTER
TWEET,
HE MADE SWEEPING ALLEGATIONS OF
ELECTION FRAUD THAT COULDN'T
POSSIBLY BE TRUE.
HERE IS THE POINT. HE DIDN'T
CARE IF THE CLAIMS WERE TRUE. HE
WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT HIS
SUPPORTERS WERE ANGRY. LIKE THE
ELECTION WAS BEING RIPPED AWAY
FROM THEM. ON MAY 24, SIX MONTHS
BEFORE THE ELECTION, HE TWEETED
IT WILL BE THE GREATEST RIGGED
ELECTION IN HISTORY. HOW COULD
HE POSSIBLY KNOW THAT IT WOULD
BE THE GREATEST RIGGED ELECTION
IN HISTORY, SIX MONTHS BEFORE
THE ELECTION HAPPENED
?
&gt;&gt; ON JUNE 22, MORE OF THE SAME.
OUR 2020 ELECTION, IT WILL BE
THE SCANDAL OF OUR TIMES. AGAIN,
ABOUT AN ELECTION THAT HAD NOT
EVEN HAPPENED. ON JULY 30
, 2020 WILL BE THE MOST
INACCURATE AND FRAUDULENT
ELECTION IN HISTORY. AGAIN, JUST
BIG WORDS WITH NOTHING TO PROVE
THEM
. HE WANTED TO MAKE SUPPORTERS
BELIEVE THAT AN ELECTION VICTORY
WOULD BE STOLEN FROM HIM AND
FROM THEM. THIS WAS TO RILE UP
HIS BASE. TO MAKE THEM ANGRY.
NOW, THESE WERE JUST A FEW OF
THE MANY TIMES PRESIDENT TRUMP
TWEETED ABOUT THIS. HE DID IT IN
SPEECHES, RALLIES ON TELEVISION
TOO.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS GOING TO BE THE
GREATEST ELECTION DISASTER IN
HISTORY.
THE ONLY WAY WE LOSE THIS
ELECTION AS IF THE ELECTION IS
RIGGED, REMEMBER THAT.
THE ONLY WAY THEY CAN TAKE THIS
ELECTION AWAY FROM US IS IF THIS
IS A RIGGED ELECTION. WE ARE
GOING TO WIN THIS ELECTION.
&gt;&gt; IT'S A RIGGED ELECTION, THE
ONLY WAY WE WILL LOSE.
&gt;&gt; WILL BE ONE OF THE MOST
FRAUDULENT ELECTIONS EVER.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS CLEARLY A MAN WHO
REFUSES TO ACCEPT THE
POSSIBILITY OR REALITY IN OUR
DEMOCRACY OF LOSING AN ELECTION.
THERE ARE DOZENS OF MORE TWEETS
AND SPEECHES OF DONALD TRUMP
SPREADING HIS LIE. BUT, YOU GET
THE POINT.
HIS SUPPORTERS GOT THE POINT AS
WELL. THEY FIRMLY BELIEVED THAT
IF HE LOST
THAT IT WAS BECAUSE THE ELECTION
WAS RIGGED.
&gt;&gt; WILL YOU ACCEPT THE ELECTION
OF JOE BIDEN UNDER ANY
CIRCUMSTANCE?
&gt;&gt; NO.
&gt;&gt; WHY IS THAT?
&gt;&gt; BECAUSE IT IS LIES, DECEIT,
AND CORRUPTION.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU THINK IF WE GET THE
ELECTION
IN THE FOLLOWING DAYS OF BIDEN
ENDS UP SOMEHOW BECOMING THE
WINNER, IS IT RIGGED?
&gt;&gt; YES, VERY MUCH SO.
&gt;&gt; YES.
&gt;&gt; IF IT SHOWS UP WITH A JOE
BIDEN WHEN
WIN, WOULD THAT BE THE ONLY WAY
PRESIDENT TRUMP WOULD LOSE WITH
A RIGGED ELECTION?
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY, I AGREE WITH
THAT. THERE IS NO WAY IN HECK
THAT THE PRESIDENT WILL LOSE.
BUT YES, IT WILL BE A RIGGED
ELECTION WITH CHEATING THAT WENT
ON AND WHAT HAVE YOU. I FIRMLY
BELIEVE THAT.
&gt;&gt; DON'T, ALL OF US IN THIS ROOM
HAVE RUN FOR ELECTION AND IT'S
NO FUN TO LOSE. I AM A TEXAS
DEMOCRAT AND WE HAVE LOST A FEW
ELECTIONS OVER THE YEARS. BUT,
CAN YOU IMAGINE TELLING YOUR
SUPPORTERS
THAT THE ONLY WAY YOU COULD
POSSIBLY LOSE IS IF AN AMERICAN
ELECTION WAS RIGGED AND STOLEN
FROM YOU? ASK YOURSELF WHETHER
YOU HAVE EVER SEEN ANYONE, AT
ANY LEVEL OF GOVERNMENT, MAKE
THE SAME CLAIM ABOUT THEIR OWN
ELECTION? THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID
. HE TRULY MADE HIS BASE BELIEVE
THAT THE ONLY WAY THAT HE COULD
LOSE WAS IF THE ELECTION WAS
RIGGED. SENATORS, ALL OF US KNOW
AND ALL OF US UNDERSTAND HOW
DANGEROUS THAT IS FOR OUR
COUNTRY.
THE MOST COMBUSTIBLE THING YOU
CAN DO IN A DEMOCRACY IS TO
CONVINCE PEOPLE THE ELECTION
DOES NOT COUNT. THAT THEIR VOICE
AND THEIR VOTE DO NOT COUNT.
THAT IT IS ALL BEEN STOLEN.
ESPECIALLY, IF WHAT YOU ARE
SAYING ARE LIES. LET US TURN NOW
TO THE ELECTION. AS YOU KNOW,
THE RESULTS WERE NOT FULLY
REPORTED ON ELECTION NIGHT,
WHICH IS NOT UNUSUAL IN OUR
NATION'S HISTORY. BUT, BY
NOVEMBER 7, MAJOR NEWS NETWORKS,
INCLUDING FOX NEWS, REPORTED
THAT ONCE THE REMAINING VOTES
WERE COUNTED THAT JOE BIDEN
WOULD BE THE LIKELY VICTOR.
SO, PRESIDENT TRUMP BEGAN URGING
HIS SUPPORTERS TO STOP THE
COUNT. I WOULD IMAGINE THAT IF
WE WENT AROUND THIS ROOM, THERE
ARE FOLKS THAT ARE SITTING HERE
THAT STARTED DOWN ON ELECTION
NIGHT AND ENDED UP COMING BACK
UP AND WINNING THEIR RACES.
PERHAPS THAT IS WHY SOME OF YOU
ARE SEATED IN THIS ROOM TODAY.
BUT, IMAGINE IF YOU WERE BEHIND
AND THE RESULTS START COMING IN.
AS YOU PULL AHEAD, YOUR OPPONENT
SAYS, THAT'S NOT FAIR, STOP THE
COUNT WHILE I'M STILL AHEAD.
THAT'S WHAT DONALD TRUMP DID.
THAT'S NOT HOW AMERICA WORKS.
HERE, EVERY VOTE COUNTS.
YOU DON'T JUST STOP COUNTY WHEN
ONE PERSON IS AHEAD. WE COUNT
EVERY VOTE.
LET'S BE CLEAR, PRESIDENT TRUMP
KNEW THAT YOU CANNOT JUST STOP
COUNTING VOTES. BUT, HE WANTED
TO INFLAME HIS BASE. THERE WAS A
PURPOSE BEHIND THIS. TO TRULY
MAKE THEM THINK THAT NOT
COUNTING THE VOTES THAT IT WAS A
RIGGED ELECTION. HE SAID ON
ELECTION NIGHT
, QUOTE, THEY ARE TRYING TO
STEAL THE ELECTION, WE WILL
NEVER LET THEM DO IT
. A LITTLE OVER ONE HOUR LATER,
AT ROUGHLY 2:30 IN THE MORNING,
BEFORE ALL OF THE VOTES WERE
EVEN CLOSE TO BEING COUNTED, HE
GOES FURTHER AND ACTUALLY
DECLARES VICTORY. TAKE A LOOK.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS FRAUD
OF THE AMERICAN PUBLIC. THIS IS
AN EMBARRASSMENT TO OUR COUNTRY.
&gt;&gt; YES.
&gt;&gt; WE WERE GETTING READY TO WIN
THIS ELECTION AND FRANKLY WE DID
WIN THIS ELECTION.
&gt;&gt; FRANKLY, WE DID WIN.
RATHER THAN CALMLY SAYING, LET'S
COUNT THE VOTES AND IF THERE IS
LEGAL ISSUES, WE WILL GO TO
COURT AND RESOLVE IT, INSTEAD,
HE TOLD HIS SUPPORTERS THAT HE
ACTUALLY WON THE ELECTION AND
THE WHOLE THING WAS FRAUD. HE
SAID ON NOVEMBER 4, AND HE HAS
NEVER RECOUNTED THAT STATEMENT,
SINCE.
DESPITE PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
PRESSURE AT THE TIME, ELECTION
OFFICIALS AROUND THE COUNTRY
CONTINUED TO CARRY OUT THEIR
DUTIES.
AS THE VOTES WERE COUNTED AND
HIS LOSS BECAME MORE CERTAIN, HE
RILED UP HIS BASE FURTHER. TAKE
A LOOK AT THESE TWEETS. ON
NOVEMBER 5, HE TWEETED IN ALL
CAPITOL LETTERS, AS IF SHOUTING
COMMANDS,  QUOTE, STOP THE COUNT
. STOP THE FRAUD. SENATORS,
IS DANGEROUS.
I ALSO WANT YOU TO REMEMBER
THESE TWEETS FOR ANOTHER REASON.
BECAUSE, THAT IS WHAT IT LOOKS
LIKE WHEN DONALD TRUMP WANTS
PEOPLE TO STOP DOING SOMETHING.
BEAR IN MIND
PRESIDENT SAYING TO HIS
SUPPORTERS THAT SOMEONE STOLE
YOUR CUP OF COFFEE.
THIS IS THE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
TELLING HIS SUPPORTERS THAT YOUR
ELECTION IS BEING STOLEN AND YOU
MUST STOP THE COUNTING OF
AMERICAN BOATS. IT WORKED. HIS
WORDS BECAME THEIR ACTIONS. HIS
COMMANDS LED TO THEIR ACTIONS.
TAKE A LOOK AT THIS. THE SAME
DAY AS THOSE TWEETS, THE SAME
DAY AS THOSE TWEETS, AROUND 100
TRUMP SUPPORTERS SHOWED UP IN
FRONT OF THE MARICOPA COUNTY
ELECTIONS CENTER IN PHOENIX.
SOME WERE CARRYING RIFLES.
LITERALLY TRYING TO INTIMIDATE
OFFICIALS TO STOP THE COUNT,
JUST AS PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD
COMMANDED. THE ARIZONA SECRETARY
OF STATE, KATIE HOBBS, SAID THE
PROTESTERS WERE QUOTE, CAUSING
DELAY AND DISRUPTION AND
PREVENTING THE EMPLOYEES FROM
DOING THEIR JOB. LET'S CALL THIS
WHAT IT WAS. WE ARE FACING A
GLOBAL PANDEMIC. WORKERS ARE
RISKING THEIR HEALTH TO ENSURE
THE INTEGRITY OF OUR ELECTIONS
. PRESIDENT TRUMP SUPPORTERS
WERE ENCIRCLING THEM AND TRYING
TO PREVENT THEM FROM DOING THEIR
OWN JOBS. THIS IS DANGEROUS
AND IT WAS SCARY AND A BLATANT
ACT OF POLITICAL INTIMIDATION.
PHILADELPHIA, THAT SAME DAY,
POLICE INVESTIGATED AN ALLEGED
PLOT TO ATTACK THE CITY'S
CONVENTION CENTER WHERE VOTES
WERE BEING COUNTED. POLICE TOOK
AT LEAST ONE MAN INTO CUSTODY
WHO WAS CARRYING A WEAPON. THIS
HAPPENED ALL OVER. IN ATLANTA,
IN DETROIT, AND IN MILWAUKEE.
SUPPORTERS USED ARMED FORCE TO
TRY TO DISRUPT LAWFUL COUNTING
OF VOTES BECAUSE THEY BOUGHT
INTO A's BIG LIE THAT THE
ELECTION WAS STOLEN FROM THEM.
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S MONTHS OF
INFLAMING AND INCITING HIS
SUPPORTERS HAD WORKED. THEY
BELIEVED IT WAS THEIR DUTY TO
QUITE LITERALLY FIGHT TO STOP
THE COUNT
. SO, THE SHOWED UP AT ELECTION
CENTERS ACROSS THE COUNTRY TO DO
JUST THAT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A FRAUD ON THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC. THIS IS AN
EMBARRASSMENT TO OUR COUNTRY.
&gt;&gt; YES.
&gt;&gt; WE WERE GETTING READY TO WIN
THIS ELECTION. FRANKLY, WE DID
WIN THIS ELECTION.
&gt;&gt;
STOP THE COUNT. STOP THE COUNT.
[ CROWD CHANTING ] STOP THE
COUNT. STOP THE COUNT.
&gt;&gt; THEY ARE NOT GOING TO TAKE IT
FROM US.
&gt;&gt; [ CROWD CHANTING ].
&gt;&gt; WE WERE WINNING IN A NUMBER
OF LOCATIONS OF MEN ARE NUMBER
STARTED GETTING WHITTLED AWAY IN
SECRET.
&gt;&gt; THEY WILL BE DESTROYED
BECAUSE AMERICA IS RISING.
&gt;&gt; THERE IT IS. THEY HAD BOUGHT
INTO HIS BIG LIE. PRESIDENT
TRUMP TOLD HIS SUPPORTERS OVER
AND OVER AGAIN, NEARLY EVERY DAY
, AND DOZENS OF TWEETS, SPEECHES
AND RALLIES THAT THEIR VOICE AND
THEIR VOTE WAS BEING STRIPPED
AWAY AND THEY HAD TO FIGHT TO
STOP THAT. AND, THEY BELIEVED
HIM AND SO THEY FOUGHT. YOU MAY
SAY THAT HE DIDN'T KNOW THEY
WOULD TAKE UP ARMS. BUT, HE DID
KNOW WHEN IT WAS ALL OVER THE
NEWS. PRESIDENT TRUMP DID NOT
STOP.
AS WE WILL SHOW, WHEN HE LOST,
HE BECAME MORE DESPERATE AND
INCITED HIS BASE EVEN FURTHER.
HE URGED THEM AGAIN AND AGAIN
WITH INCREASINGLY FORCEFUL
LANGUAGE TO STOP THE STEEL. HE
GREW MORE DESPERATE AND GAVE
SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW,
WHERE, AND WHEN TO FIGHT TO STOP
THE STEAL. HE TOLD THEM TO SHOW
UP ON JANUARY 6  AND MARCH TO
THE U.S. CAPITOL TO STOP THE
CERTIFICATION OF THE ELECTION
RESULTS. HE TOLD THEM TO COME
HERE AND FIGHT LIKE .
WE WILL SHOW THAT THIS MOB THAT
SHOWED UP ON JANUARY 6 DID NOT
COME OUT OF THIN AIR. PRESIDENT
DONALD J. TRUMP, INCITED THIS
VIOLENCE. THAT IS THE TRUTH.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT AND DISTINGUISH
CENTERS. MY NAME IS ERIC
SWALWELL AND I REPRESENT
CALIFORNIA'S DISTRICT.
WE JUST LOOKED AT DONALD TRUMP'S
LIES AND ASK BEFORE THE ELECTION
. BUT, TO PARAPHRASE WHAT IS IN
CHURCH HILL, THAT WAS NOT THE
END OF HIS EFFORTS. THAT WAS NOT
THE BEGINNING OF THE END. BUT,
PERHAPS IT WAS THE END OF THE
BEGINNING. HERE IS WHAT I MEAN.
YOU SAW PRESIDENT TRUMP PRIMED
FOR MONTHS HIS SUPPORTERS,
THAT IF HE LOST, IT WOULD ONLY
BE SO BECAUSE THE ELECTION WAS
RIGGED. THAT WOULD TAKE TIME.
JUST LIKE BUILDING A FLYER, IT
DOESN'T START WITH THE FLAMES.
DONALD TRUMP, FOR MONTHS AND
MONTHS ASSEMBLED THE TENDER, THE
KINDLING AND HE THREW ON LOGS
FOR FUEL TO HAVE HIS SUPPORTERS
BELIEVE
THAT THE ONLY WAY THAT THEIR
VICTORY WOULD BE LOST WAS IF IT
WAS STOLEN. SO, THAT WAY
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS READY. IF
YOU LOST THE ELECTION, TO LIGHT
THE MATCH.
ON NOVEMBER 7, AFTER ALL THE
VOTES WERE COUNTED, PRESIDENT
TRUMP DID LOSE BY 7 MILLION
VOTES.
FOR DONALD TRUMP, ALL WAS NOT
LOST. HE HAD A BACKUP PLAN.
INSTEAD OF ACCEPTING THE RESULTS
OR PURSUING LEGITIMATE CLAIMS,
HE TOLD HIS BASE MORE LIES. HE
DOUSED THE FLAMES WITH KEROSENE
. THIS WAS NOT JUST SOME RANDOM
GUY AT THE NEIGHBORHOOD BAR
BLOWING OFF STEAM. THIS WAS OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF. DAY AFTER
DAY HE TOLD HIS SUPPORTERS
FALSE, OUTLANDISH LIES THAT THE
VICTORY AND THAT THE ELECTION
OUTCOME WAS TAKEN AND THAT IT
WAS RIGGED. HE HAD ABSOLUTELY NO
SUPPORT FOR HIS CLAIMS, BUT THAT
WAS NOT THE POINT. HE WANTED TO
MAKE HIS BASE ANGRIER AND
ANGRIER. TO MAKE THEM ANGRY, HE
WAS WILLING TO SAY ANYTHING. ON
NOVEMBER 15, HE STATES, I
CONCEDE NOTHING. WE HAVE A LONG
WAY TO GO. RIGGED ELECTION. IT
DOESN'T SAY WHY THE ELECTION IS
RIGGED. ON NOVEMBER 17, IN A
TWITTER STATEMENT, DEAD PEOPLE
VOTED. THAT'S IT. NO EVIDENCE,
JUST DEAD PEOPLE VOTED.
ON NOVEMBER 28 IN A TWITTER
STATEMENT, WE HAVE FOUND MANY
ILLEGAL VOTES, STAY TUNED. THIS
JUST WAS NOT TRUE. HE NEVER
FOUND ILLEGAL VOTES. HE DID NOT
EVEN TRY TO PREVENT PRETEND HE
HAD EVIDENCE FOR THAT
. STAY TUNED WAS ALL ABOUT
INCITING HIS BASE AND NOT ABOUT
BRINGING LEGITIMATE CLAIMS. IT
WAS ABOUT DRAMATIZING THE
ELECTION TO ANGER HIS
SUPPORTERS. ON DECEMBER 5, YOU
CAN SEE HERE THAT HE GOES AFTER
THE GOVERNORS OF ARIZONA AND
GEORGIA. GOVERNORS FROM HIS OWN
PARTY CLAIMING THEY WERE NOT
WITH HIM. YOU SEE
, SENATORS, HE CASTS THIS IN
COMBAT TERMS THAT EITHER YOU ARE
WITH HIM MAKING SURE THAT HE WON
THE ELECTION OR, YOU ARE
FIGHTING AGAINST HIM. THESE ARE
JUST A FEW OF THE HUNDREDS OF
TWITTER STATEMENTS THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP SENT. IT WAS NOT
JUST TWITTER STATEMENTS. AS YOU
WILL SEE
, HE WAS DIALING INTO MEETINGS
AND HOLDING RALLIES AND
APPEARING ON TELEVISION.
CONTINUING TO SPREAD THE BIG LIE
THAT HIS ELECTION VICTORY WAS
STOLEN.
&gt;&gt; PEOPLE THAT WERE DEAD WERE
SIGNING UP FOR BALLOTS. NOT ONLY
WERE THEY PUTTING IN A BALLOT,
BUT DEAD PEOPLE WERE REQUESTING
BALLOTS THAT HAD BEEN DEAD FOR
YEARS AND THEY WERE REQUESTING
BALLOTS.
&gt;&gt; DEAD PEOPLE VOTING ALL OVER
THE PLACE.
&gt;&gt; THE ALLEGED BIDEN OF
MARGIN OF VICTORY IN SEVERAL
STATES IS ACCOUNTED FOR BY
EXTRAORDINARY LARGE MIDNIGHT
VOTE DUMPS. HE SAW THEM GOING UP
TO THE SKY.
&gt;&gt; MASSIVE MIDNIGHT VOTE DUMPS
AND DEAD PEOPLE VOTING ALL OVER
THE PLACE. HE SAID THERE WERE
VOTES GOING UP TO THE SKY. THIS
WAS NEVER ABOUT PURSUING
LEGITIMATE CLAIMS
.  HE WAS SAYING ANYTHING HE
COULD TO TRIGGER AND ANGER HIS
BASE SO THAT THEY WOULD FIGHT
LIKE TO OVERTURN  A LEGITIMATE
ELECTION. AND, IT WORKED. JUST
AS MANAGER CASTRO SHOWED YOU,
TRUMP SUPPORTERS WERE TAKING UP
ARMS TO STOP THE COUNT.  HIS
MESSAGE TO FIGHT LIKE  WAS
HAVING REAL CONSEQUENCES. IN
MICHIGAN
, YOU WILL RECALL THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP WAS ATTACKING THAT STATE
AND ITS OFFICIALS. HE CONTINUED
THESE ATTACKS EVEN AFTER
MICHIGAN CERTIFIED ITS VOTES.
&gt;&gt; TAKE A LOOK AT MICHIGAN
. TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT THEY DID
WITH RESPECT TO COUNTIES. AND
THEN YOU GET TO DETROIT AND IT'S
LIKE MORE VOTES THAN PEOPLE?
DEAD PEOPLE VOTING ALL OVER THE
PLACE.
&gt;&gt;
IN ALMOST EVERY COUNTY IN
MICHIGAN AND IN EVERY DISTRICT,
WE SHOULD'VE WON THAT STATE
EASILY. WE HAVE A SIMILAR TYPE
OF GOVERNOR, I THINK, BUT I WILL
LET YOU KNOW THAT IN ABOUT A
WEEK.
&gt;&gt; HE WAS LITERALLY TELLING THEM
THAT THERE WERE MORE VOTES IN
DETROIT THAN PEOPLE. ABOUT
260,000 PEOPLE VOTED IN DETROIT.
THERE ARE ROUGHLY 500,000
REGISTERED VOTERS IN DETROIT.
THERE ARE APPROXIMATELY 670,000
PEOPLE LIVING IN THE CITY. SO,
AGAIN, NOT TRUE. BUT, HE NEEDED
TO MAKE THESE OUTLANDISH CLAIMS
TO TRULY MAKE HIS SUPPORTERS
BELIEVE THAT THEIR VICTORY WAS
STOLEN FROM THEM. AND, IT WAS
WORKING. A FEW DAYS AFTER THESE
CLIPS ON DECEMBER 5, HIS
SUPPORTERS SURROUNDED THE
MICHIGAN SECRETARY OF STATE'S
HOME.
&gt;&gt; THE SECRETARY OF THE STATE
HOUSE
.
&gt;&gt; STOP THE STEAL . [ CROWD
CHANTING ] STOP THE STEAL. STOP
THE STEAL .  STOP THE STEAL .
&gt;&gt; YOU ARE A THREAT TO
DEMOCRACY. YOU ARE A THREAT TO
FREE AND HONEST ELECTIONS.
&gt;&gt; 9:00 AT NIGHT, THE SECRETARY
'S FAMILY WAS INSIDE AND
PROTESTERS HAD SURROUNDED HER
HOME. THEY ARE CHANTING THAT SHE
IS A FELON. WHEN THE PROTESTERS
SHOWED UP TO SAY, STOP THE STEAL
, IT WAS NOT THE FIRST TIME
TRUMP SUPPORTERS HAD USED
THREATS AND INTIMIDATION.
PRESIDENT TRUMP CANNOT SAY, I
DIDN'T KNOW WHAT I WAS INCITING.
FROM WHAT MANAGER CASTRO SHOWED
AND FROM WHAT I SHOWED, THERE IS
PLENTY OF EVIDENCE THAT HIS
WORDS HAD CONSEQUENCES. IF HE
HAD WANTED TO STOP IT, HE COULD
STOP IT. YOU SAW MR. CASTRO READ
STATEMENT AFTER STATEMENT FROM
OUR COMMANDER IN CHIEF SAYING TO
STOP THE COUNT AND STOP THE
STEAL . PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS
NEVER SHY ABOUT USING HIS
PLATFORMS TO TRY TO STOP
SOMETHING. HE COULD
VERY EASILY HAVE TOLD HIS
SUPPORTERS TO STOP THREATENING
OFFICIALS AND STOP GOING TO
THEIR HOMES. STOP THE THREATS.
BUT, EACH TIME, HE DID NOT.
INSTEAD
, IN THE FACE OF ESCALATING
VIOLENCE, HE INCITED THEM
FURTHER
. THE NEXT PHASE OF THE
CERTIFICATION RESULTS WAS THE
CERTIFICATION ON DECEMBER 14 OF
THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTES. THE
NIGHT BEFORE, PRESIDENT TRUMP
PERSONALLY
ISSUED 14 TWITTER STATEMENTS
WITH MORE FALSE CLAIMS ABOUT THE
ELECTION BEING STOLEN AND
DIRECTING HIS SUPPORTERS TO MAKE
SURE, QUOTE, THEY CANNOT BE
CERTIFIED. HE STATES HERE THE
RHINOS THAT RUN THE STATE VOTING
APPARATUS HAVE CAUSED THE
PROBLEM OF ALLOWING THE
DEMOCRATS TO SO BLATANTLY CHEAT
IN THEIR ATTEMPT TO STEAL THE
ELECTION WHICH WE WON
OVERWHELMINGLY. WE WILL NEVER
GIVE UP.
IN THE FACE OF THREATS TO
ELECTED OFFICIALS, THIS IS HIS
MESSAGE. HE CALLS THEM
RINOS. REPUBLICANS IN NAME ONLY
.
HE WANTED TO OVERTURN THE
ELECTION RESULTS SO PRESIDENT
TRUMP COULD WIN.
&gt;&gt; DESPITE
THE EFFORTS TO STOP, VOTERS CAST
THEIR WILL ACCORDING TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE AND JOE BIDEN
WAS CERTIFIED AS HAVING WON 306
ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTES. THE DAY
AFTER THIS OCCURRED, LEADER
McCONNELL RECOGNIZE THIS
STATING, MANY OF US HOPE THAT
THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION WOULD
HAVE YIELD A DIFFERENT RESULT.
BUT OUR SYSTEM OF GOVERNMENT HAS
PROCESSES TO DETERMINE WHO WILL
BE SWORN IN ON JANUARY 20.
ELECTORAL COLLEGE HAS SPOKEN. AS
MANAGER CASTRO SAID
, NO ONE HERE AND NO ONE AMONG
US WANTS TO LOSE AN ELECTION
. SOMETIMES THERE IS A REASON TO
DISPUTE AN ELECTION. SOMETIMES
THE COUNT IS CLOSE AND SOMETIMES
WE ASK FOR A RECOUNT OR WE GO TO
COURT. THAT IS ENTIRELY
APPROPRIATE. BUT, WHAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP DID WAS DIFFERENT. WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID WAS THE
POLAR OPPOSITE OF WHAT ANY OF US
WOULD DO IF WE LOST AN ELECTION.
BECAUSE, ONCE THE OUTCOME IS
CLEAR AND A JUDGE RULES, WE
CONCEDE. WE RECOGNIZE THE WILL
OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
. BECAUSE WE LET THE PEOPLE
DECIDE. THAT IS WHAT ALL OF THE
COURTS AND THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT AND THE 50 STATES
THAT HAD COUNTED THE VOTES
, THEY SAID IT WAS TIME FOR A
PEACEFUL TRANSITION OF POWER,
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT OUR
CONSTITUTION AND RULE OF LAW
DEMANDS. EXCEPT PRESIDENT TRUMP.
HE DIRECTED ALL OF THE RAGE THAT
HE HAD INCITED TO JANUARY 6
. THAT WAS HIS LAST CHANCE TO
STOP THE PEACEFUL TRANSITION OF
POWER. THAT BRINGS US TO THE
ATTACK. MANAGER CASTRO TOLD YOU
THE POWER OF THE LIE, ESPECIALLY
WHEN THE LIGHT COMES FROM THE
MOST POWERFUL PERSON IN THE
WORLD, THE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF.
IT ALSO HELPS IF YOU SPEND
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS TO AMPLIFY
THE LIE. YOU WILL SEE HERE THAT
IN MID-DECEMBER
PRESIDENT TRUMP ANNOUNCED TO THE
RELEASE OF ADS, INCLUDING THE
ONES ENTITLED, THE EVIDENCE IS
OVERWHELMING. FRAUD, STOP THE
STEAL. HE STOPPED  SPENT $50
MILLION FROM HIS LEGAL DEFENSE
FUND TO STOP THE STEAL AND
AMPLIFY HIS MESSAGE.
THEY WERE RELEASED NATIONALLY
AND PLAYED IN VIDEO ADS AND
ONLINE ADVERTISING. TARGETING
TEXT MESSAGES. THEY USE THE SAME
WORDS AND PHRASES THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAD BEEN SPREADING FOR
MONTHS. THAT THE ELECTION WAS
FULL OF FRAUD AND TO STOP THE
STEAL. NOW THERE WAS A FURTHER
PURPOSE. HOW DO WE KNOW THE
PURPOSE? THESE ADS WERE DESIGNED
TO RUN ALL THE WAY UP TO JANUARY
5 . THEN, THEY STOPPED.
THIS WAS PURPOSEFUL AND
DELIBERATE PLANNING TO TARGET
HIS BASE TO RALLY AROUND THAT
DAY. IT WAS NOT JUST HIS ADS
, HE CONTINUED TO USE HIS OWN
PLATFORM. HE TOLD HIS SUPPORTERS
WHO TRULY BELIEVED THEIR VICTORY
HAD BEEN STOLEN AND THEY WERE
READY TO FIGHT. HE TOLD THEM
WHEN, WHERE, AND HOW TO STOP
WHAT HE BELIEVED WAS A STEEL.
DONALD TRUMP WOULD ISSUE A
DELIBERATE CALL TO ACTION. JUST
LIKE IN HIS ADS, THAT ACTION
CENTERED AROUND JANUARY 6. ON
DECEMBER 19, AT 1:42 IN THE
MORNING, OUR COMMANDER IN CHIEF
TWEETED
, BIG PROTEST IN D.C. ON JANUARY
6, BE THERE. IT WILL BE WILD. WE
WILL BE WILD. WE KNOW WHY HE
PICKS THIS DAY
, IT WASN'T RANDOM. IT WAS HIS
LAST CHANCE TO STOP A PEACEFUL
TRANSITION OF POWER. HE GAVE HIS
SUPPORTERS PLENTY OF TIME TO
PLAN. THIS WAS A SAVE THE DATE
THAT WAS SENT OUT 18 DAYS BEFORE
THE EVENT ON JANUARY 6. IT WAS
NOT A CASUAL ONE OFF REFERENCE
OR A SINGLE INVITATION. FOR THE
NEXT 18 DAYS, DONALD TRUMP WOULD
MAKE SURE TO REMIND THEM OVER
AND OVER AND OVER TO SHOW UP ON
JANUARY 6. HE WOULD TELL THEM
EXACTLY WHAT HE WANTED THEM TO
DO. ON DECEMBER 26, HE TWEETS,
IF A DEMOCRAT PRESIDENTIAL
CANDIDATE HAD AN ELECTION
STOLEN WITH PROOF OF SUCH ACTS
AT A LEVEL NEVER SEEN BEFORE,
THE DEMOCRAT SENATORS WOULD
CONSIDER IT AN ACT OF WAR AND
FIGHT TO THE DEATH. MITCH AND
THE REPUBLICANS DO NOTHING. JUST
WANT TO LET IT PASS WITH NO
FIGHT.
HE IS SAYING THE REPUBLICANS ARE
DOING NOTHING AND HAVE NO FIGHT
BECAUSE YOU ARE DOING YOUR JOB
TAKING ON THE CONSTITUTIONAL
PROCESS OF CERTIFYING THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE RESULTS.
HE ALSO SUGGESTS, PRESIDENT
TRUMP, THAT IF THIS IS THE
REVERSE OF THE DEMOCRATS HAD
LOST THAT IT WOULD BE AN ACT OF
WAR. AN ACT OF WAR. THAT IS HOW
DONALD TRUMP PREPARED HIS
SUPPORTERS FOR JANUARY 6
. HE EVEN STATED AGAIN, 14
MINUTES LATER, TO MAKE SURE HIS
SUPPORTERS UNDERSTOOD. QUOTE,
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT AND THE
FBI HAVE DONE NOTHING ABOUT THE
2020 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION VOTER
FRAUD. THE BIGGEST SCAM, ALL
CAPS,
IN THE NATION'S HISTORY DESPITE
OVERWHELMING EVIDENCE. THEY
SHOULD BE ASHAMED. THEN, HE
ADDS, HISTORY WILL REMEMBER.
NEVER GIVE UP, SEE EVERYONE IN
D.C. ON JANUARY 6. THAT PHRASE,
HISTORY WILL REMEMBER WAS THE
ONLY TIME AND THE FIRST TIME
DONALD TRUMP HAD USED IT IN HIS
PRESIDENCY. HE SENT THIS TO 70+
MILLION TWITTER FOLLOWERS. THE
DAY THEY NEEDED TO SHOW UP AND
BE READY TO FIGHT. ON DECEMBER
27, HE REMINDS THEM AGAIN
MISS IT. INFORMATION TO FOLLOW.
A FEW DAYS LATER ON DECEMBER 30,
ALL CAPS, SEE YOU IN D.C.
. THIS CONTINUES ALL THE WAY UP
TO JANUARY 6. ON JANUARY 1 HE
STATES, THE BIG PROTEST RALLY IN
WASHINGTON WILL TAKE PLACE AT
11:00 A.M.. LOCATIONAL DETAILS
TO FOLLOW. STOP THE STEAL . YOU
WILL SEE ONE HOUR LATER THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP RETWEETED ONE OF
HIS TWITTER FOLLOWERS.
THAT FOLLOWER WAS KYLIE KREMER,
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF WOMEN FOR
AMERICA FIRST, THE GROUP
ORGANIZING THE JANUARY 6 RALLY
AND THE CREATOR OF THE FACEBOOK
GROUP, STOP THE STEAL
.
&gt;&gt; AND SHE TWEETED, THE CALVARY
IS COMING, MR. PRESIDENT.
REFERRING TO THE CALVARY SHOWING
UP ON JANUARY 6. SHE ALSO ADDED
A WEBSITE FOR SUPPORTERS TO RSVP
AND MADE CLEAR WHAT THE MESSAGE
WAS WITH THE HASHTAG,  STEAL .
AND WHAT DID THE PRESIDENT SAY?
A GREAT HONOR, HE WROTE BACK. IT
WAS NOT JUST A SINGLE TWEET. HE
AND HIS ORGANIZERS WOULD DO THIS
OVER AND OVER
, REPEATEDLY. THEN ANOTHER
SUPPORTER TWEETS, WE HAVE BEEN
MARCHING ALL AROUND THE COUNTRY
FOR YOU, MR. PRESIDENT AND NOW
WE WILL BRING IT TO D.C. ON
JANUARY 6 AND PROUDLY STAND
BESIDE YOU. THANK YOU FOR
FIGHTING FOR US.
&gt;&gt; WHEN MR. TRUMP RETWEETED HER
TWEET, HE WROTE, BEST DAY EVER.
THANK YOU. IT HAS BEEN AN HONOR
TO STAND UP. WE WILL BE FIGHTING
FARM
STRONG ON JANUARY 6 AND WE ARE
BRINGING THE CAVALRY, MR.
PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE BRINGING THE CAVALRY.
THAT IS THE CONSISTENT MESSAGE
. THIS WAS NOT JUST ANY OLD
PROTEST. PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS
INCITING SOMETHING HISTORIC. THE
CAVALRY WAS COMING. HE WAS
ORGANIZED. IN HER POST
, MS. LAWRENCE TAGGED KYLIE
KREMER, THE ORGANIZER OF THE
EVENT
, WHOSE POST WE JUST SAW
PRESIDENT TRUMP RETWEET. AGAIN,
YOU SEE THIS WAS ALL CONNECTED.
I WON'T SHOW YOU ALL OF THE
TWITTER STATEMENTS, AND THERE
ARE A LOT. BUT, HERE IS ONE
MORE. PRESIDENT TRUMP RETWEETED
ANOTHER POST WHICH HAD ALL OF
THE DETAILS OF JANUARY 6 WITH
THE SAME HASHTAGS. MARCH FOR
PRESIDENT TRUMP, DO NOT CERTIFY,
STOP THE STEAL. IN RESPONSE,
PRESIDENT TRUMP WRITES BACK , I
WILL BE THERE ON THE HISTORIC
DAY.
&gt;&gt; BEFORE CONGRESS
, I PROSECUTED VIOLENT CRIMES IN
CALIFORNIA. I WAS IN ALAMEDA
COUNTY
DISTRICT ATTORNEY. WHEN YOU
INVESTIGATE AND PROSECUTE
VIOLENT CRIMES, YOU HAVE TO
DISTINGUISH
, WAS IT THE HEAT OF PASSION
CRIME OR SOMETHING MORE
DELIBERATE AND PLANNED? WAS IT
PREMEDITATED? THE EVIDENCE HERE
ON THIS IS OVERWHELMING.
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S CONDUCT
LEADING UP TO JANUARY 6 WAS
DELIBERATE, PLANNED, AND
PREMEDITATED. THIS WAS NOT ONE
SPEECH OR ONE TWEETS, IT WAS
DOZENS IN RAPID SUCCESSION WITH
THE SPECIFIC DETAILS. HE WAS
ACTING AS PART OF THE HOST
COMMITTEE. IN FACT, WHEN HE HAD
ASSEMBLED HIS INFLAMED MOB IN
D.C., HE WARNED US THAT HE KNEW
WHAT WAS COMING.
THIS WAS PRESIDENT TRUMP 'S
STATEMENT THE NIGHT BEFORE THE
ATTACK
. I SHOULD SAY THIS WAS ONE OF
HIS DOZENS OF STATEMENTS ON
TWITTER IN THE HOURS LEADING UP
TO THE ATTACK. I HOPE THE
DEMOCRATS AND EVEN MORE
IMPORTANTLY THOUGH WEEK
AND INEFFECTIVE RINO SECTION OF
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY ARE LOOKING
AT THE THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
POURING INTO D.C. . THEY WON'T
STAND FOR A LANDSLIDE VICTORY TO
BE STOLEN.
AT SENATE MAJORITY LEADER, AT
JOHN CORNYN.
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE POURING INTO
D.C. THAT WILL NOT STAND FOR THE
LANDSLIDE ELECTION TO BE STOLEN.
IT'S ALL RIGHT THERE. HE TAGS
SENATORS TO PRESSURE YOU TO STOP
THIS
. HE WARNS ALL OF US THAT HIS
THOUSANDS OF SUPPORTERS, WHOM
YOU WILL SEE THE FBI HAD WARNED
WERE ARMED AND TARGETING THE
CAPITOL  WILL NOT STAND FOR US
CERTIFYING THE RESULTS OF THE
ELECTION. THIS WAS NEVER ABOUT
ONE SPEECH. HE BUILT THIS MOB
OVER MANY MONTHS WITH MISSED
REPEATED MESSAGING UNTIL THEY
BELIEVED THEY HAD BEEN ROBBED OF
THEIR VOTE AND THEY WOULD DO
ANYTHING TO STOP THE
CERTIFICATION
. HE MADE THEM BELIEVE THAT
THEIR VICTORY WAS STOLEN AND HE
AND CITED THEM SO THAT HE COULD
USE THEM TO STEAL THE ELECTION
FOR HIMSELF.
&gt;&gt; THIS ELECTION WAS RIGGED.
&gt;&gt;
THIS IS AGAINST THE PEOPLE OF
THE UNITED STATES AND WE WILL
NOT STAND FOR IT ANYMORE.
&gt;&gt; IF WE DON'T ROOT OUT THE
FRAUD, THE TREMENDOUS AND
HORRIBLE FRAUD OF THE 2020
ELECTION, WE DON'T HAVE A
COUNTRY ANYMORE.
&gt;&gt; THEY LIE, THEY CHEAT, THEY
STEAL. THEY ARE RUTHLESS IN
GETTING POWER AND CONTROL BY ANY
MEANS NECESSARY .
&gt;&gt; PLEASE STEP BACK. MOVE BACK.
&gt;&gt; [ CROWD CHANTING ].
&gt;&gt; WE CANNOT LET IT HAPPEN.
&gt;&gt; [ CROWD CHANTING ]
STOP THE STEAL.
&gt;&gt; THE DEMOCRATS ARE TRYING TO
STEAL THE WHITE HOUSE AND YOU
CANNOT LET THEM .
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN'T LET IT HAPPEN
, NEVER CONCEDE, FIGHT. HE TOLD
THEM IN SPEECH AFTER SPEECH. THE
CROWDS WERE READY TO FIGHT
. THIS IS WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
WAS INCITING. HE FORESAW WHAT
WAS COMING AND THIS IS WHAT HE
DELIBERATELY LED TO OUR DOORSTEP
ON JANUARY 6. I WANT TO BE CLEAR
THAT DURING THIS TRIAL
, WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THE VIOLENT
MOB DURING THE ATTACK, WE DON'T
MEAN EVERY AMERICAN WHO SHOWED
UP AT PRESIDENT TRUMP'S RALLY
PERIOD CERTAIN AMERICANS CAME TO
PROTEST PEACEFULLY, AS IS THEIR
RIGHT. THAT IS WHAT MAKES OUR
COUNTRY SO GREAT. TO DEBATE
FREELY
, OPENLY AND PEACEFULLY, OUR
DIFFERENCES. JUST LIKE ALL OF
YOU WERE ATTEMPTING TO DO IN
THIS VERY ROOM ON JANUARY 6.
BUT, WHAT PRESIDENT DID
TRUMP DID WAS DIFFERENT. HE
DIDN'T TELL SUPPORTERS TO FIGHT
OR BE STRONG IN A CASUAL
REFERENCE. HE REPEATEDLY, OVER
MONTHS, TOLD THEM TO FIGHT FOR A
SPECIFIC PURPOSE. HE TOLD THEM
THEIR VICTORY WAS STOLEN IN THE
ELECTION WAS RIGGED AND THEIR
PATRIOTIC DUTY WAS TO FIGHT TO
STOP THE STEAL. HE REPEATED THE
MESSAGING EVEN AFTER HE SAW THE
VIOLENCE THAT IT WAS INCITING .
THEY WERE PRIMED, ANGRY AND
READY TO FIGHT AND HE ESCALATED
AND CHANNELED TO THE RAGE WITH A
CALL TO ARMS
. SHOW UP ON JANUARY 6 AT THE
EXACT TIME THE VOTES OF THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE WERE BEING
COUNTED AND CERTIFIED.  THEN,
MARCH TO THE CAPITOL AND FIGHT
LIKE . HE TOLD THIS TO THOUSANDS
OF
PEOPLE WHO WERE ARMED TO THE
TEETH AND TARGETING US AND
DETERMINED TO STOP THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE COUNT
. WHAT OUR COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
DID WAS WILDLY DIFFERENT FROM
WHAT ANYONE HERE IN THIS ROOM
DID TO RAISE ELECTION CONCERNS.
THIS WAS A DELIBERATE,
PREMEDITATED INCITEMENT TO HIS
BASE TO ATTACK OUR CAPITOL WHILE
THE COUNTING WAS GOING ON . IT
WAS FORESEEABLE, ESPECIALLY TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP WHO WARNED US
THAT HE KNEW WHAT WAS COMING
. THIS IS WHAT THE EVIDENCE HAS
OVERWHELMINGLY SHOWN AND WILL
SHOW IN THIS TRIAL. IT IS ALSO
THE TRUTH.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; MAJORITY LEADER?
&gt;&gt; I ASKED FOR A RECESS FOR A 15
MINUTE BREAK.
&gt;&gt; WITH THAT OBJECTION, SO
ORDERED.
&gt;&gt; AN ORGANIZED AND METHODICAL
MULTIMEDIA
PRESENTATION THAT DONALD TRUMP
VIOLATED HIS OATH OF OFFICE AND
SHOULD BE CONVICTED OF A HIGH
CRIME AND MISDEMEANOR.  I AM
LIBBY CASEY  AND YOU ARE
WATCHING  A WASHINGTON POST
SPECIAL PRESENTATION. MY GUEST
JAMES HOHMANN IS HERE  WHO IS A
COLUMNIST AT THE WASHINGTON
POST. JAMES, LET'S JUST TICK
THROUGH WHAT WE HEARD THIS
MORNING. YOU KNOW, WE ALL KNEW,
AND WE DO KNOW THAT WE WILL BE
SEEING FRESH VIDEO TODAY. TODAY
AND THROUGH TOMORROW AND THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER
'S CASE. THEY ARE SLOWLY AND
METHODICALLY BUILDING A CASE
SHOWING WHAT THE PRESIDENT WAS
DOING IN THE WEEKS LEADING TO
JANUARY 6
.
&gt;&gt; IT REALLY IS REMARKABLE WHEN
YOU TAKE IT TOGETHER. ALL OF US
AND EVERYONE WATCHING AT HOME
AND THE SINNERS IN THE TRIAL, WE
LIVED THROUGH THIS. IT IS NOT
HISTORY, IT IS THE LAST YEAR. IN
THE PRESENTATIONS FROM
CONGRESSMAN
, WE SAW TWEETS GOING BACK NOT
JUST TO THE ELECTION, BUT BEFORE
THE ELECTION MAT THOSE UP TO SAY
IT WAS PROVOKED BY TRUMP. IT WAS
USED A COUPLE OF TIMES BETWEEN
PRESENTATIONS THAT HE SENT A
SAVE THE DATE TO SUPPORTERS FOR
PEOPLE TO COME TO WASHINGTON ON
JANUARY 6. IT IS MORE THAN JUST
THE SINGLE SPEECH THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP GAVE BEFORE THE MOB CAME
TO THE CAPITOL .
&gt;&gt; WHEN WE SAW THIS, ESPECIALLY
IN THE LAST HOUR, IT IS BECAUSE
THE FBI HAD
EVIDENCE WITH THE MORE THAN 200
CHARGES BROUGHT AGAINST THE
PEOPLE THAT WERE PART OF THE
RIOT THAT THERE WAS ADVANCE
PLANNING BEFORE JANUARY 6 AND IT
WAS NOT SPONTANEOUS. THERE WERE
PEOPLE ON THE DARK WEB TALKING
ABOUT STORMING THE CAPITOL AFTER
THE  RALLY. TO SAY IT WAS
PROVOKED IN MORE THAN ONE SPEECH
IS SO TO SAY THAT THE DEFENSE
TEAM CANNOT COME BACK AND SAY IT
WAS SPONTANEOUS AND IT WAS PLAN
ON JANUARY 4 AND JANUARY 5. THAT
TRUMP WAS
EGGING PEOPLE ON AND THERE WAS
NO WAY HE COULD LOSE THIS
ELECTION
.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO MORE INTO THE
DECISION BY PRESIDENT TRUMP THAT
JANUARY 6 WOULD BE A HALLMARK
DAY. A DAY OF HISTORY, AS WE
HEARD THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
TALK ABOUT.
AS WE HEARD PRIOR TO THIS YEAR
THAT HAD BEEN A CEREMONIAL
MOMENT FOR CONGRESS TO CERTIFY
THESE RESULTS.
&gt;&gt; AFTER JANUARY 6, THIS IS WHEN
THEY CERTIFY THE VOTES.
THE PRESIDENT, AS WELL AS SOME
OF HIS ALLIES ON THE HILL FELT
IT WAS SORT OF A LAST STAND.
THAT THEY WANTED TO OBJECT
TO PRESIDENT BIDEN WINNING THE
ELECTION AND THEY KNEW THIS WAS
THE LAST OPPORTUNITY TO DO SO.
WHAT WE HAVE BEEN SEEING AND
THESE PROCEEDINGS IS THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER'S SHOWING
THAT IT WAS KNOWN AMONG TRUMP
SUPPORTERS. WE WERE SEEING
TWEETS WHERE ONE SUPPORTER SAID
THE CALVARY IS COMING, MR.
PRESIDENT. THEY ARE ESTABLISHING
THIS IDEA THAT IT IS
PREMEDITATED AND
MORE ORGANIZED THAN PEOPLE JUST
TUNING IN TO SEE PEOPLE ON THE
LAWN OF THE CAPITOL AND BREAKING
IN
. THIS WAS A SLOW CREEP THROUGH
THE LAST PART OF THE
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN
AS WELL AS THE WEEKS BEFORE JOE
BIDEN WAS INAUGURATED.
&gt;&gt; IT LOOKS LIKE WE JUST SAW
SENATOR HOLLY IN THE BACKGROUND
SORT OF SWORN
SWARMED BY REPORTERS. WE DON'T
HAVE AS MANY EYES AND EARS IN
THE HOUSE CHAMBER AS WE NORMALLY
WOULD WITH COVID RESTRICTIONS.
THEY ARE REALLY ACTING AS THE
EYES AND EARS OF ALL OF US. THE
SENATE CONTROLS THE CAMERAS. THE
REASON YOU DON'T SEE THE CAMERA
PAN AROUND THE ROOM TO SHOW
EVERYONE IS NOT THE DECISION OF
ANY BUDDY, IT IS BECAUSE OF THE
DECISION OF CONGRESS. WE CAN SEE
IN TERMS OF HOW PEOPLE ARE
PLAYING AT PAYING ATTENTION. I
HEARD FROM JOSH HAWLEY THAT HE
IS NOT PAYING ATTENTION.
&gt;&gt; I JUST GOT A MESSAGE FROM HIS
TEAM SAYING THAT HE WAS PAYING
ATTENTION AND LOOKING AT THE
BRIEFS. THEY ARE PUSHING BACK ON
THAT CHARACTERIZATION. LAST
NIGHT WHEN WE SAW THAT VOTE, ALL
OF THE SENATORS BOAT AT THEIR
DESKS WHICH IS UNUSUAL. BECAUSE
OF
SOCIAL DISTANCING. SOME OF THE
CENTERS, INCLUDING
JOSH HAWLEY HAVE BEEN IN THE
GALLERY. SOME ARE SPREAD OUT IN
THE GALLERY
AND THIS TIME, SOME ARE ALLOWED
TO BE IN THE CLOAKROOM WHICH
MEANS THEY DON'T HAVE TO BE
DIRECTLY ON THE FLOOR. I PROMISE
TO OUR VIEWERS THAT WE WOULD
LOVE TO KNOW, AS MUCH AS THEM,
WHEN THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS WHEN THERE IS A TWEET
CRITICIZING MITCH McCONNELL, WE
WOULD LOVE TO SEE HIS FACIAL
EXPRESSION AND ALL OF THOSE WHO
WERE NAME CHECKED IN THE LAST
FEW HOURS. IT IS ONE OF THE
FRUSTRATING THINGS THAT WE DON'T
HAVE THAT VISIBILITY. WE HAVE
EVEN LESS VISIBILITY AND WE NEED
THE REAL-TIME REACTION THAT WE
DID DURING THE FIRST IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL A YEAR AGO.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, WE HEARD CONGRESSMAN
SWALWELL MAKING A POINT THAT
THIS IS NOT ABOUT ALL THE
PROTESTERS AND ALL THE PEOPLE
WHO CAME TO WASHINGTON, D.C.  TO
DEMONSTRATE AND SHOW THEIR
SUPPORT FOR DONALD TRUMP AND TO
PROTEST THE RESULTS OF THE
ELECTION
. SO, HE IS TRYING TO
DIFFERENTIATE BETWEEN THE PEOPLE
WHO CAME TO D.C.. FOR THOSE WHO
WANT TO MARCH THROUGH
AND STORMED THE CAPITOL . WHY IS
THAT IMPORTANT?
&gt;&gt; IT IS IMPORTANT BECAUSE YOU
DID HAVE MEMBERS OF THE GROUP OF
DEMONSTRATORS, AT FIRST,  WHO
WERE NOT PART OF ANY SORT OF
ORGANIZING TO GET INTO THE
CAPITOL . THERE HAS BEEN VIDEO
TO SHOW HOW THERE WAS A BATTLE
BETWEEN THOSE OUTSIDE WHO WANTED
TO COME IN AND OTHERS WHO SAID,
I DIDN'T COME FOR THIS AND I
JUST CAME TO SHOW SUPPORT FOR
PRESIDENT TRUMP. IT DOES SHOW IN
A WAY THAT THERE WAS
DISORGANIZATION IN THE MINDS OF
THE GROUP THAT GATHERED AT THE
CAPITOL . SOME DID NOT SIGN UP
TO COME IN
.  SO, I BELIEVE THAT  ERIC
SWALWELL WAS TRYING TO SHOW SOME
OF THE REPUBLICAN SENATORS IN
THE CHAMBER  THAT IT IS
UNDERSTOOD THAT EVERYONE WAS NOT
HERE TO BE VIOLENT. HOWEVER,
THERE WAS A MAJORITY OF PEOPLE
WHO CAME IN BY FORCE, OR FOLLOW
THE PEOPLE WHO CAME IN BY FORCE
AND THOSE ARE THE PEOPLE
CULPABLE IN ALL OF THIS. THERE
WERE PEOPLE WHO WERE GENUINELY
HERE BECAUSE THEY HEARD THERE
WOULD BE A SPEECH FROM PRESIDENT
TRUMP AND THEY WOULD BE HERE TO
SUPPORT HIM.
&gt;&gt; THE POINT IS THAT THERE WERE
PEOPLE WHO CAME TO THE MALL BUT
DID NOT RAMPAGE THE CAPITOL .
WHETHER OR NOT YOU PUNCHED A
CAPITOL POLICE OFFICER OR ATTACK
SOMEONE OR FOLLOW THEM, YOU WERE
STILL BREAKING THE LAW AND
COMING ONTO THIS PROPERTY
. IT IS UP TO THE JUSTICE SYSTEM
TO FIGURE OUT WHAT TO DO WITH
THOSE INDIVIDUALS.  BUT,  ERIC
SWALWELL SEEMS TO BE SAYING IT
IS NOT ABOUT ALL REPUBLICANS
AND EVEN ALL ABOUT THE
PROTESTERS.
WE HAVE SEEN SOME LEADING
REPUBLICANS ON CONSERVATIVE
TELEVISION TRYING TO PAINT THIS
AS AN ATTACK OF ALL VOTERS OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP
. IF YOU SUPPORTED PRESIDENT
TRUMP, YOU ARE LUMPED INTO THIS
AND YOU ARE ESSENTIALLY PART OF
THE MOB THE DEMOCRATS ARE GOING
AFTER.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY. WHAT I WAS STRUCK
ABOUT
THE TONE WAS THAT IT WAS ALMOST
SYMPATHETIC TO THE RANK-AND-FILE
TRUMP SUPPORTERS. TO SAY THEY
WERE BEING MISLED
. THEY SAID THAT A COUPLE OF
TIMES. TRUMP LIED TO HIS
SUPPORTERS AND TOLD THEM THERE
WAS THIS FRAUD. YOU KNOW, THEY
ARE ALMOST FRAMING THEM AS
VICTIMS OF THIS CONSPIRACY BY
TRUMP TO GET THEM PASSIONATE AND
PROVOKE THEM BASED ON FALSE
PRETENSES. SO, I DID NOTICE
THERE WAS A COUPLE OF MOMENTS,
EVEN IN THE PHRASEOLOGY THAT
TRUMP IS THE DEFENDANT HERE AND
NOT THE PEOPLE WHO STORMED THE
CAPITOL . THIS IS NOT CALLING
TRUMP SUPPORTERS, OR HALF OF
THEM, DEPLORABLE'S. IT IS SAYING
THAT TRUMP HIMSELF WAS
DANGEROUSLY PLOTTING AND TRYING
TO PROVOKE THIS MOB TO STOP THE
PEACEFUL TRANSITION OF POWER
.
&gt;&gt; LET'S BRING IN OUR COLLEAGUE,
HANNAH JEWELL WHO STORMED THE
CAPITOL ON JANUARY 6 . SO YOU
HEARD THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS,
WHAT STOOD OUT TO YOU?
&gt;&gt; AS JAMES WAS SAYING, DESPITE
NOT BEING ON TRIAL,  THE CAPITOL
RILES  WRITERS ARE PART OF THIS
TRIAL.
&gt;&gt; THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS,
TODAY, HAVE REFERRED REPEATEDLY
TO THE STATEMENTS OF THE CAPITOL
WRITERS  THEMSELVES WHO
COMMITTED CRIMES THAT DAY
. THE PRESIDENT TRUMP REQUESTED
WE BE IN D.C. ON THAT DAY. I
THOUGHT I WAS FOLLOWING THE
PRESIDENT AND DOING WHAT I WAS
CALLED TO DO. THINGS THAT THE
WRITERS SHARED ON SOCIAL MEDIA
OR IN INTERVIEWS TO THE PRESS,
IN FACT. IT SAYS A LOT ABOUT THE
RIOTERS FEELING THEY WERE NOT
DOING ANYTHING WRONG. SO, AS
REPRESENTATIVE CASTRO AND THE
OTHERS REPEATED, HE SAID HIS
COMMANDS LED TO THEIR ACTIONS
.  IN FACT, WE ARE SEEING SOME
OF THE CAPITOL RIOTERS,
THEMSELVES  USE THIS ARGUMENT
IN THEIR DEFENSES IN THEIR COURT
CASES. THE LAWYER FOR ONE OF THE
MEMBERS ACTUALLY SAID HIS CLIENT
WAS ONE OF MILLIONS OF AMERICANS
WHO WERE MISLED BY THE
PRESIDENT'S DECEPTION.
&gt;&gt; HIS CLIENT AND OTHERS LIKE
HIM WILL LIKELY SPEND YEARS OF
THEIR LIVES IN PRISON WHILE
DONALD TRUMP RESUMES HIS LIFE OF
LUXURY AND PRIVILEGE.  THAT IS
THE WORDS OF ONE OF THE LAWYERS
FOR ONE OF THE CAPITOL RIOTERS .
WHO THESE PEOPLE ARE REMAINS
IMPORTANT TO THE TRIAL AND WHY
THEY DID WHAT THEY DID. WE ARE
LEARNING MORE ABOUT WHO THEY ARE
AND THEIR BACKGROUNDS. ANOTHER
INTERESTING THING WE LEARNED
TODAY ABOUT THE CAPITOL RIOTERS
AND AN EXCLUSIVE WASHINGTON POST
REPORT IS THAT 60% OF THOSE
ARRESTED HAD A HISTORY OF
FINANCIAL TROUBLE OF SOME KIND
OR THAT INCLUDED BANKRUPTCY AND
TAX PROBLEMS. EVEN THE WOMAN WHO
TOOK A PRIVATE CHECKED
TO WASHINGTON FROM TEXAS, HAD
TAX AND BANKRUPTCY PROBLEMS
HERSELF. THIS IS COMING TO THE
SOURCE OF WHAT COULD CAUSE
PEOPLE, WHETHER WAS THE
PRESIDENT'S WORDS OR NOT, TO DO
THIS VIOLENT ACT. AT LEAST 30 OF
THE PEOPLE CHARGE SO FAR
, AT LEAST 30 WERE MILITARY
VETERANS AND A FEW WERE ACTIVE
RESERVISTS. BECAUSE OF THIS,
SECRETARY AUSTIN HAS IMPLEMENTED
A MILITARY WIDE STANDDOWN ORDER
TO URGENTLY ADDRESS FAR RIGHT
EXTREMISM IN THE RANKS OF THE
ARMED FORCES. I AM SURE THIS
WILL NOT BE THE LAST THAT WE
HAVE HEARD ABOUT THE WRITERS
THEMSELVES.
&gt;&gt; TALKING ABOUT THE ASSESSMENT
THE MILITARY IS DOING ITSELF.
&gt;&gt; AND I WANTED TO MENTION BRUCE
CASTOR, ONE OF THE ATTORNEYS FOR
PRESIDENT TRUMP. HE SAID, YOU
WON'T HEAR ANYBODY SAY
THAT WHAT HAPPENED WAS OKAY. HE
WAS TRYING TO SEPARATE PRESIDENT
TRUMP FROM THOSE WHO PHYSICALLY
DID THE ACTIONS. SO, WHAT WILL
YOU BE LISTENING FOR IN A COUPLE
DAYS TIME WHEN WE MOVED TO
HEARING PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ATTORNEYS GIVE HIS RELATIONSHIP
TO THE ACCUSED?
&gt;&gt; I IMAGINE THERE WILL HAVE TO
BE
AN INTENSE OLYMPIC LEVEL OF
CHERRY PICKING AMONG THE
STATEMENTS OF THOSE CHARGE SO
FAR IN THE RIOT AND WHAT THEY
HAVE SAID.  OF COURSE, WITH SO
MANY PEOPLE ATTACKING THE
CAPITOL , THERE ARE SOME WHO I
AM SURE DID GO FOR THE PROTESTS
AND THEN THOUGHT, WERE NOT
ALLOWED TO
-- OH, WE ARE GOING IN HERE NOW.
YOU CAN SEE PEOPLE DOING THAT.
THEN YOU HAVE GROUPS FROM THE
MILITIA QUOTING THE PRESENT'S
WORDS THAT IT'S HARD TO SEPARATE
THE PRESIDENT FROM THAT.
ESPECIALLY WHEN THE PRESIDENT
HAS DONE A LOT TO SEPARATE
HIMSELF FROM THE WRITERS. HE
SAID HE LOVED TO THE RIOTERS ON
THE DAY WHERE HE FINALLY CAME
OUT TO SPEAK ON JANUARY 6. SO,
I'M LOOKING FOR
OLYMPIC STYLE CHERRY PICKING,
FOR SURE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH HANNAH
JEWELL FOR THAT. THERE WAS ALSO
THIS STANDDOWN THAT WAS A
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WIDE
STANDDOWN
. TO LOOK AT THE QUESTION OF
WHERE EXTREMISM IS IN THE RANKS.
CAN YOU TELL US MORE ABOUT THAT?
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY
. A REPORT CAME OUT FROM THE
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
IN 2009, SHORTLY AFTER BARACK
OBAMA BECAME PRESIDENT AND IT
WARNED OF POTENTIAL RIGHT WING
EXTREMISM FROM PEOPLE WHO CAME
BACK FROM IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN
TO BECOME RADICALIZED TO SUPPORT
RIGHT WING FRINGE GROUPS. THERE
WAS BLOWBACK FROM A LOT
INCLUDING CENTERS IN THIS TRIAL
. THE DHS SECRETARY APOLOGIZED
AND THEY RETRACTED THE GUIDANCE.
IT HAD A CHILLING EFFECT, FOR
THE LAST DECADE. IT REALLY
PROMPTED A LOT OF LAW
ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES TO LOOK THE
OTHER WAY AT TROUBLING SIGNS OF
RADICALIZATION
AND EXTREMISM. ESPECIALLY ON THE
RIGHT AND AMONG FORMER MILITARY
TYPES. MANY OF THOSE PEOPLE WERE
INVOLVED IN THIS MOB AND THIS
RIOT. NOW THE PENDULUM IS
SWINGING IN THE OTHER DIRECTION
AND THERE IS AN INVESTIGATION TO
LOOK AT THE HOTBEDS OF
RADICALIZATION. THERE HAS BEEN A
BIG PROLIFERATION OF EXTREMIST
GROUPS AND MILITIAS. THERE IS A
LOT OF EVIDENCE THAT SOME OF
THESE MILITIAS, WITH NAMES LIKE
THE 3% ERRORS
ARE COORDINATING WITH OTHER
MILITIAS LIKE THE OATH KEEPERS
AND THAT THEY WERE HAVING RALLY
POINTS BEFORE JANUARY 6 WHERE
THEY WERE HAVING KIND OF
CARAVANS COMING TO WASHINGTON.
SO, THE GOVERNOR AND GOVERNMENT
IS PART OF THE DRAGNET EXPLORING
THE MOTIVES AND HOW PEOPLE
DRIFTED INTO THESE GROUPS. THIS
IS SIGNIFICANT
,  LIBBY, BECAUSE IT COULD ALLOW
THE GOVERNMENT TO BRING MORE
SERIOUS CHARGES RELATED TO
CONSPIRACY THAT GO BEYOND JUST
BREACHING THE CAPITOL  AND
GETTING INTO POTENTIALLY
SEDITION WHICH IS A LAW WHERE
THERE IS A PENALTY OF A
MANDATORY 20 YEARS. SO, THAT IS
WHERE THIS INVESTIGATION IS
GOING. BUT IT IS PRETTY CLEAR
THE COUNTRY WILL BE GRAPPLING
WITH THIS EXTREMISM THREAT FOR A
LONG TIME. WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
POLLS, THE MAJORITY OF AMERICANS
, AND THIS IS NOT TO SAY THE
REPUBLICANS ARE EXTREMIST BY ANY
MEASURE. MANY BELIEVE THAT JOE
BIDEN DID NOT WIN THE ELECTION
FAIR AND SQUARE. THERE IS A
SIGNIFICANT SWATH OF
PEOPLE WHO DO NOT SEE THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT LEADERSHIP AS
LEGITIMATE AND THAT HAS BEEN
ENCOURAGED BY PRESIDENT TRUMP.
THAT WILL BE A CHALLENGE FOR LAW
ENFORCEMENT. BECAUSE SOME OF THE
PEOPLE IN THAT CADRE MAY PURSUE
EXTREMISM BECAUSE THEY DON'T SEE
THE GOVERNMENT AS LEGITIMATE.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO BACK AND LISTEN TO
SOME OF THE ARGUMENTS MADE BY
LEAD HOUSE OF PEACE MANAGER,
JAMIE RASKIN
. THIS IS THE CASE THAT NOT ONLY
DID DONALD TRUMP HAVE A ROLE IN
WHAT HAPPENED JANUARY 6, HE WAS
THE RINGLEADER.
&gt;&gt; THE EVIDENCE WILL SHOW YOU
THAT X PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS NO
INNOCENT BYSTANDER.
IT WILL SHOW THAT HE CLEARLY AND
CITED THE JANUARY 6
INSURRECTION. IT WILL SHOW THAT
DONALD TRUMP SURRENDERED HIS
ROLE AS COMMANDER IN CHIEF AND
BECAME THE INSIGHTS OR IN
A DANGEROUS INSURRECTION. THIS
WAS, AS A COLLEAGUE PUT IT SO
COGENTLY ON JANUARY 6, ITSELF,
THE GREATEST PORTRAYAL OF THE
PRESIDENTIAL OATH IN THE HISTORY
OF THE UNITED STATES.
&gt;&gt; THAT WAS IMPEACHMENT MANAGER,
CONGRESSMAN RASKIN . LET'S GO TO
WHAT WE WILL BE LOOKING FOR
THROUGH THE REST OF THE
AFTERNOON AND THE EVENING.
&gt;&gt; THE REST OF THE DAY WILL BE
MUCH LIKE WE HAVE SEEN FOR THE
PAST COUPLE OF HOURS WHERE THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WILL
CONTINUE TO LAY OUT THIS CASE IN
THEIR OPENING ARGUMENT THAT THE
PRESIDENT PROVOKED AND LED TO
THE ATTACK ON THE CAPITOL .
THERE WILL BE MORE EVIDENCE AND
THERE WILL BE MORE OF A TIMELINE
OF TWEETS THAT FORMER PRESIDENT
TRUMP PUT OUT THERE IN THE DAYS
LEADING UP TO JANUARY 6. THEY
WILL CONTINUE ON DISCUSSING THIS
AND USING VISUAL AIDS WHICH SEEM
TO BE QUITE POWERFUL
. SINCE YESTERDAY WHEN THEY
UTILIZED THE LONG MONTAGE REAL
OF THE CLIPS INSIDE AND OUTSIDE
OF THE CAPITOL. THIS IS HAVING
SOME IMPACT . THEY DO HAVE THEIR
CASE VERY WELL LAID OUT,
VISUALLY. WE ARE GOING TO SEE
MORE OF THAT
AND WE EXPECT TO SEE NEVER
BEFORE SEEN SECURITY FOOTAGE OF
WHAT HAPPENED AND HOW
DANGEROUSLY CLOSE THE RIOTERS
WERE TO MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND
FORMER VP PENN SAYS WELL.
&gt;&gt; WE JUST SAW MITCH McCONNELL
ENTER THE CHAMBER. WE WILL BRING
THIS TO YOU LIVE IN
UNINTERRUPTED. WE HAVE BEEN TOLD
THERE WILL BE TWO RAKES AND A
DINNER BREAK THIS EVENING.
DURING THAT TIME, THE TEAM WILL
BE HERE TALKING ABOUT THE LATEST
NEWS AS WELL AS
GETTING THE BREAKING NEWS
STORIES RELATED TO THE
IMPEACHMENT PROCESS AND THE
ATTACK ON THE CAPITOL ON JANUARY
6. WE WILL GET THE NEWS
SURROUNDING THAT AS WELL .
JAMES, AS WE GET CLOSE TO 2:00,
I WANT TO GO TO YOU FOR REALLY
THE BARRAGE OF EXAMPLES
&gt;&gt;&gt; CHRONICLING AND CALLING OUT
HIS FALSE ONGOING AS THEY CAME,
BUT WHEN YOU SEE THEM ALL LINED
UP TOGETHER, RATHER THAN SORT OF
A LITTLE BIT HERE AND THERE. IT
REALLY IS ASTOUNDING TO SEE THE
MAN WHO WAS THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES REFUSING TO ACCEPT
THE RESULTS OF THE ELECTION.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY LIBBY, AND SAYING
FOR MONTHS THAT HE WOULDN'T.
NO MATTER WHAT. THERE WAS NO WAY
HE COULD LOSE. IF HE LOST IT
COULD BE ONLY BECAUSE OF FRAUD.
&gt;&gt; AT A TIME WHEN HE WAS BEHIND
IN THE POLLS AND WE WERE ALL
AWARE OF THE FACT -- SORRY TO
INTERRUPT JAMES THAT A LOT OF
THE MAIL IN VOTING THAT WOULD BE
TAKING PLACE OR EARLY VOTING
BECAUSE OF THE COVID-19 AND
TRYING TO ALLOW MORE AMERICANS
TO VOTE WOULD CHANGE HOW WE WERE
GETTING RESULTS ON ELECTION
NIGHT.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY, WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT THIS FOR MONTHS AND MONTHS
AND THE -- FORMER PRESIDENT TOOK
ADVANTAGE OF THAT. AND HE PRIMED
PEOPLE TO BELIEVE THAT THE
ELECTION WAS GOING TO BE RIGGED.
HE DECLINED TO COMMIT TO THE
PEACEFUL TRANSFER OF POWER.
INCLUDING DURING THE FIRST
DEBATE. AND SO I THINK LIBBY,
BIGGER PICTURE WHAT
WE SAW IN THIS OPENING SALVO
THIS AFTERNOON WAS THAT
PREDICATE. REALLY IS KIND OF
EVEN COVERING THE STUFF
DAY-TO-DAY AMAZING TO PUT IT
BACK TOGETHER. WE FORGET SO MANY
OF THE EXAMPLES. AS CASTRO SAID
AT SOME POINT, THE CONGRESSMAN
FROM TEXAS, THERE ARE DOZENS AND
DOZENS OF MORE TWEETS AND
STATEMENTS LIKE THIS FROM
RALLIES BUT YOU GET THE PICTURE.
EVERYTHING LEADING UP TO THE
ELECTION AND JANUARY 6th AND
YESTERDAY WE SAW SOME OF THE
SPEECH THAT DIRECTLY PRECEDED
THE SIEGE OF THE CAPITOL. AND I
THINK THIS AFTERNOON, WE'RE
GOING TO START TO GET INTO WHAT
HAPPENED ON JANUARY 6th.
AND THAT'S WHERE THIS NEVER
BEFORE SEEN FOOTAGE IS GOING TO
COME OUT. AND THEY'VE SORT OF
TEED IT UP TO I
THINK PUNCH PRETTY HARD THIS
AFTERNOON.
&gt;&gt; WHAT TRUE CONNECTION DID THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS NEED TO
MAKE, JAMES, BETWEEN PRESIDENT
TRUMP, WHAT HE SAID AND WHAT HE
DID, AND THE ATTACK?
&gt;&gt; WELL, YOU KNOW, WE SAW SOME
CLIPS OF PEOPLE WHO WERE
INVOLVED IN THE ATTACK.
ESPECIALLY THIS WOMAN FROM
DALLAS. THIS REALTOR JENNA RYAN.
YOU KNOW SAYING TRUMP TOLD US TO
COME. SO THAT'S OUT THERE.
THAT'S PART OF THE PUBLIC
RECORD. WE SAW A REALLY
INTERESTING MAP LAST WEEK WITH
CELL PHONE DATA THAT TRACKED
PEOPLE'S LOCATIONS AND YOU CAN
LITERALLY SEE THE DOTS FROM
PEOPLE STANDING AT TRUMP'S RALLY
ON THE ELLIPSE AND THEN ALL
MIGRATING INTO THE CAPITOL. SO I
THINK YOU WILL SEE SOME THINGS
LIKE THAT TO SHOW ONE THING LED
DIRECTLY TO THE OTHER. AND THAT
PEOPLE THOUGHT THEY WERE THERE
AS AGENTS OF DONALD TRUMP. BUT I
THINK ALSO WHAT'S IMPORTANT TO
SHOW, LIBBY, FOR DEMOCRATS HERE,
IS THEY NEED TO DEMONSTRATE AND
THEY MAY NOT GET TO THIS AT
LENGTH UNTIL TOMORROW, IS THAT
TRUMP DIDN'T RESPOND. ONCE IT
WAS CLEAR THAT THE MOB HAD GONE
IN, THAT THE CAPITOL HAD BEEN
BREACHED, THAT EVERYONE WAS IN
DANGER AND TRUMP WASN'T TAKING
CALLS OR SENDING HELP, AND THEN
TRUMP WAS SORT OF RELISHING THE
SHOW AS JAMIE RASKIN PUT IT. SO
THAT'S -- WE'VE SEEN THE
PREDICATE. NOW WE'LL SEE JANUARY
6th AND THEN I THINK WE'LL SEE
THE KIND OF THE HOURS AFTER THE
CAPITOL WAS BREACHED. HOW TRUMP
DIDN'T ACT.
&gt;&gt; AND WE JUST SAW PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S DEFENSE TEAM
HEAD BACK INTO THE CHAMBER.
JAMES, AFTER -- REALLY
DISASTROUS DAY BY TRUMP'S LEGAL
TEAM YESTERDAY. HOW ARE THEY
SORT OF SCRAMMENING AND
PRETEARING TO THINK ABOUT THE
NEXT STEPS.
&gt;&gt; THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
FRUSTRATED. THE PRESIDENT WAS
ANGRY HE FELT EMBARRASSED. BY
THESE FOLKS. LINDSAY GRAHAM SAID
THIS MORNING THAT HE TALKED WITH
TRUMP AND REASSURED HIM THAT THE
TEAM WILL GET ITS SEA LEGS FOR
LATER THIS WEEK. I THINK THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO HIT HARDER ON
THE POINT THAT WE TALKED ABOUT A
LITTLE BIT EARLIER WHICH WAS TO
STIPULATE THAT THE MOB WAS
TERRIBLE. AND THAT ALL THE STUFF
THAT HAPPENED IN THE CAPITOL WAS
AWFUL AND THEN TRY THE SAY THESE
PEOPLE WERE ACTING ON THEIR OWN
-- THEY WEREN'T ACTING ON BEHALF
OF TRUMP. I THINK THEY'RE GOING
TO TRY TO LEAN INTO THAT AS MUCH
AS POSSIBLE AND I EXPECT THEY
WILL TRY TO FIND SOME
VALIDATION. IN A LOT OF VIDEOS
WE SAW FROM THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WHERE YOU
KNOW TRUMP SAYS THIS WILL BE
REMEMBERED AS A HISTORIC DAY.
TRUMP ALSO SAID PLEASE, GO
PEACEFULLY. SO THEY'LL FOCUS ON
THAT.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT, JAMES, THANKS SO
MUCH. LET'S GO BACK NOW TO THE
FLOOR OF THE SENATE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
COLLEAGUES AND MADELEINE
DEAN AND TED LIEU WILL NOW
DETAIL PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
INCREASINGLY DESPERATE ATTEMPTS
TO STOP THE SALE.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT?
&gt;&gt; EST STEAMED MEMBERS OF THE
SENATE, IT IS MY SOLEMN HONOR TO
BE BEFORE YOU TODAY.
I AM MADELEINE DEAN
CONGRESSWOMAN THE FROM THE
FOURTH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT OF
PENNSYLVANIA. I'M A LAWYER AND A
FORMER PROFESSOR OF WRITING AND
I'M A SISTER AND I'M A WIFE AND
I'M A MOTHER, I'M A GRANDMOTHER
TO THREE, WITH FOURTH ON HER
WAY. I'M A PERSON OF FAITH AND
I'M AN AMERICAN. ALONG WITH
MANAGER LIEU I WILL PRESENT THE
ACTIONS OF A DESPERATE PRESIDENT
AND WE WILL PRESENT EVIDENCE
TODAY OF A CLASS OF PUBLIC
SERVANTS WHO STANDING UP TO
ENORMOUS PRESSURE FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DID THE RIGHT THING AND UPHELD
THEIR OATHS. MY COLLEAGUES JUST
PRESENTED EVIDENCE OF A
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S MONTHS LONGS
EFFORTS TO INCITE HIS BASE
LEADING THEM TO BELIEVE THE
ELECTION WAS STOLEN.
THAT THEY NEEDED TO FIGHT LIKE
HELL TO STOP THE STEAL ON
JANUARY THE 6th. THESE WEREN'T
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S ONLY
EFFORTS TO OVERTURN THE RESULTS.
MANAGER LIEU AND I WILL PRESENT
EVIDENCE OF PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
RELENTLESS ESCALATING CAMPAIGNS
TO FABRICATE AN ELECTION VICTORY
BY IGNORING ADVERSE COURT
RULINGS. PRESSURING AND
THREATENING ELECTION OFFICIALS.
ATTACKING SENATORS AND MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS. PRESSURING THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT AND FINALLY,
BULLYING HIS OWN VICE PRESIDENT.
PRESIDENT TRUMP AND HIS ALLIES
FILED 62 SEPARATE LAWSUITS IN
FEDERAL COURTS ACROSS MORE THAN
HALF A DOZEN STATES AND THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, INCLUDING
PENNSYLVANIA, MY HOME STATE, AS
WELL AS ARIZONA,
GEORGIA, MICHIGAN, MINNESOTA,
NEVADA, AND WISCONSIN. OF THE 62
POST ELECTION LEGAL CHALLENGE,
HE LOST 61. ONLY ONE WAS
SUCCESSFUL. AND THAT CASE
INVOLVED BALLOT CURING IN
PENNSYLVANIA. AND HAD NO IMPACT
ON PRESIDENT BIDEN'S 80,555 VOTE
VICTORY IN OUR COMMONWEALTH.
TO BE CLEAR, NOT A SINGLE COURT,
NOT A SINGLE JUDGE, AGREED THAT
THE ELECTION RESULTS WERE
INVALID OR SHOULD BE
INVALIDATED. INSTEAD, COURT
AFTER COURT REVIEWING THESE
CHALLENGES, SAID THESE CASES
WERE QUOTE NOT CREDIBLE. WITHOUT
MERIT. BASED ON NOTHING BUT
SPECULATION. AND FLAT OUT WRONG.
THE JUDICIARY RESOUNDINGLY
REJECTED TRUMP'S FRAUD
ALLEGATIONS AND UPHELD THE
ELECTION RESULTS. BUT IT WAS
MORE THAN THAT. THE COURTS SAID
THESE CASES WERE DIFFERENT. THEY
WERE DANGEROUS TO OUR DEMOCRACY.
FOR AN EXAMPLE. IN AN OPINION BY
UNITED STATES' DISTRICT COURT
JUDGE MATTHEW BRAND FROM
PENNSYLVANIA, HE SAID AND I
QUOTE -- THIS COURT HAS BEEN
PRESENTED WITH STRAINED LEGAL
ARGUMENTS WITHOUT MERIT AND
SPECULATIVE ACCUSATIONS. IN THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, THIS
CANNOT JUSTIFY THE
DISENFRANCHISEMENT OF A SINGLE
VOTER. LET ALONE ALL THE VOTERS
OF ITS SIXTH MOST POPULATED
STATE. OUR PEOPLE AND LAWS AND
INSTITUTIONS DEMAND MORE.
BECAUSE THIS COURT HAS NO
AUTHORITY TO TAKE AWAY THE RIGHT
TO VOTE OF EVEN A SINGLE PERSON,
LET ALONE MILLIONS OF CITIZENS,
IT CANNOT GRANT PLAINTIFF'S
REQUESTED RELIEF. THAT DECISION
BY JUDGE BRAWN WAS AFFIRMED
ON APPEAL BY JUDGE STEFANOS
BEBES APPOINTEE WHO AGREED AND
WROTE I QUOTE -- THE NUMBER OF
BALLOTS IT SPECIFICALLY
CHALLENGES IS FAR SMALLER THAN
THE ROUGHLY 81,000 VOTE MARGIN
OF VICTORY. AND IT NEVER CLAIMS
FRAUD. OR THAT ANY OF THE VOTES
WERE CAST BY ILLEGAL VOTERS.
PLUS, TOSSING OUT MILLIONS OF
MAIL-IN BALLOTS WOULD BE
DRASTIC. AND UNPRECEDENTED.
DISENFRANCHISING A HUGE SWATH OF
THE ELECTORATE. AND UPSETTING
ALL DOWN BALLOT RACES. END
QUOTE.
SIMILARLY, AS JUDGE LINDA PARKER
OF THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF
MICHIGAN FRAMED IT, SHE SAID --
STUNNING IN ITS SCOPE, AND
BREATHTAKING IN ITS REACH, IF
GRANTED, THE RELIEF WOULD
DISENFRANCHISE THE VOTES OF MORE
THAN 5.5 MILLION MICHIGAN
CITIZENS WHO, WITH DIGNITY AND
HOPE AND A PROMISE OF A VOTE,
PARTICIPATED IN THE 2020 GENERAL
ELECTION. DONALD TRUMP TOLD HIS
SUPPORTERS THEY ARE STEALING THE
ELECTION. THEY TOOK AWAY YOUR
VOTE. IT'S RIGGED. THAT WAS NOT
TRUE. ACCORDING TO JUDGE AFTER
JUDGE, THE TRUTH WAS EXACTLY THE
OPPOSITE. TRUMP WAS NOT SUING
ENSURE ELECTION INTEGRITY. HE
WAS PURSUING LAWSUITS THAT WOULD
IN EFFECT STRIP AWAY AMERICAN
VOTES SO THAT HE COULD WIN. IN
OTHER WORDS, DONALD TRUMP WAS
ASKING THE JUDICIARY TO TAKE
AWAY VOTES FROM AMERICANS, SO
THAT HE COULD STEAL THE ELECTION
FOR HIMSELF. THEN, AFTER LOSING
IN ALL THE COURTS, TRUMP TURNED
TO ANOTHER TACTIC. PRESSURING
AND THREATENING ELECTION
OFFICIALS. YOU SAW WHAT HAPPENED
IN MICHIGAN AFTER TRUMP ATTACKED
THE STATE. AND ITS ELECTION
OFFICIALS. HIS SUPPORTERS
SURROUNDED THE SECRETARY OF
STATE'S HOME AS YOU SAW IN THE
EARLIER SLIDE, CHANTING, CALLING
HER A FELON. ON NOVEMBER 17th,
THE BOARD OF CANVASSERS FOR
WAYNE COUNTY, MICHIGAN, HOME TO
DETROIT, UNANIMOUSLY CERTIFIED
THE ELECTION RESULTS FOR BIDEN.
THAT SAME NIGHT, AFTER THEIR
VOTE TO CERTIFY THE RESULTS,
TRUMP CALLED THE TWO REPUBLICAN
MEMBERS OF THAT BOARD,
PRESSURING THEM TO CHANGE THEIR
MINDS. THE CALL WORKED. THE NEXT
DAY, BOTH MONICA PALMER AND
WILLIAM HARTMAN, THE REPUBLICAN
BOARD MEMBERS, ATTEMPTED TO
RESCIND THEIR
VOTE TO CERTIFY MICHIGAN'S
ELECTION RESULTS. BUT THEY
SIMPLY COULDN'T. PRESIDENT TRUMP
DIDN'T STOP THERE. HE THEN
CONTACTED MAJORITY LEADER OF THE
MICHIGAN SENATE, MIKE SHIRKY AND
THE SPEAKER OF THE MICHIGAN
HOUSE LEE CHATFIELD TO LOBBY
THEM TO OVERTURN MICHIGAN'S
RESULTS. TRUMP INVITED MR.
CHATFIELD AND MR. SHIRKY TO
WASHINGTON TO MEET WITH HIM AT
THE WHITE HOUSE. LET'S BE CLEAR,
DONALD TRUMP WAS CALLING
OFFICIALS, HOSTING THEM AT THE
WHITE HOUSE, URGING THEM TO DEFY
THE VOTERS IN THEIR STATE, AND
INSTEAD AWARD VOTES TO TRUMP.
THE OFFICIALS HELD STRONG AND SO
TRUMP MOVED ON TO A DIFFERENT
STATE. MY HOME STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA. I AM CERTAIN MY
SENATORS, CASEY AND SENATOR
TOOMEY, REMEMBER WHAT HAPPENED
THERE. IN EARLY DECEMBER, AS HE
DID IN MICHIGAN, HE BEGAN
CALLING ELECTION OFFICIALS
INCLUDING MY FORMER COLLEAGUES
IN THE PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE.
REPUBLICANS, MAJORITY LEADER KIM
WARD AND SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE,
BRIAN CUTLER. MAJORITY LEADER
WARD SAID THE PRESIDENT CALLED
HER TO QUOTE DECLARE THERE WAS A
FRAUD IN THE VOTING, END QUOTE.
THEN ON NOVEMBER 25th, PRESIDENT
TRUMP PHONED INTO A REPUBLICAN
STATE SENATE POLICY HEARING,
TRYING TO CONVINCE THE
REPUBLICAN LEGISLATORS,
SENATORS, AND HOUSE MEMBERS,
THERE HAD BEEN A FRAUD IN THE
VOTE. HE EVEN HAD HIS LAWYER
HOLD A PHONE UP TO THE
MICROPHONE IN THAT HEARING ROOM
SO THE COMMITTEE COULD HEAR HIM.
HERE'S WHAT HE SAID.
&gt;&gt; WE CAN'T LET THAT HAPPEN. WE
CAN'T LET IT HAPPEN FOR OUR
COUNTRY AND THIS ELECTION HAS TO
BE TURNED AROUND. BECAUSE WE WON
PENNSYLVANIA BY LOT AND WE WON
ALL OF THESE SWING STATES BY A
LOT.
&gt;&gt; THIS WAS A GATHERING -- I
HAVE ATTENDED MANY I HAVE TO
TELL YOU AS A FORMER STATE
LEGISLATOR, A LOT OF POLICY
HEARINGS. I HAVE TO SAY WITH
SOME CONFIDENCE THAT WAS LIKELY
THE FIRST TIME A PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
CALLED INTO A STATE LEGISLATIVE
POLICY HEARING. AND REMEMBER,
HERE IS THE PRESIDENT SAYING HE
WON PENNSYLVANIA. AND
PENNSYLVANIA HAD BEEN CERTIFIED
THAT BIDEN HAD
WON BY MORE THAN 80,000 VOTES.
LESS THAN A WEEK AFTER CALLING
INTO MEETING HE INVITED MULTIPLE
REPUBLICAN MEMBERS OF THE
PENNSYLVANIA LEGISLATURE TO THE
WHITE HOUSE. THE SAME SCHEME HE
HAD USED ON THE MICHIGAN
LEGISLATORS. IT DIDN'T WORK.
WITH THOSE PUBLIC SERVANTS
EITHER. THINK ABOUT IT. THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
WAS CALLING PUBLIC OFFICIALS,
CALLING FROM THE WHITE HOUSE,
INVITING THEM INTO THE OVAL
OFFICE, TELLING THEM TO
DISENFRANCHISE VOTERS OF THEIR
STATE? TELLING THEM TO OVERTURN
THE WILL OF THE AMERICAN PEOPLE.
ALSO, HE COULD TAKE THE ELECTION
FOR HIMSELF. AND THEN IN GEORGIA
A STATE TRUMP HAD COUNTED ON FOR
VICTORY, HIS CONDUCT WAS PERHAPS
THE MOST EGREGIOUS. ON NOVEMBER
11th, REPUBLICAN SECRETARY OF
STATE BRAD RAF FENSBERGER
CONFIRMED HE BELIEVED BALLOTS
WERE ACCURATELY COUNTED FOR
BIDEN.
TRUMP WENT ON A RELENTLESS
ATTACK. HERE ARE JUST A FEW
EXAMPLES IN ALL TRUMP TWEETED AT
HIM 17 TIMES IN THE COMING WEEK.
LET ME SHOW YOU JUST A FEW.
AND THESE ATTACKS HAD
CONSEQUENCES. MR. RAFFENSPERGER
AND HIS FAMILY RECEIVED DEATH
THREATS. QUOTE -- YOUR HUSBAND
DESERVES TO FACE A FIRING SQUAD.
YOU BETTER NOT BOTCH THIS
RECOUNT. YOUR LIFE DEPENDS UPON
IT.
THE RAFFENSPERGERS SHOULD BE PUT
ON TRIAL
FOR TREASON AND FACE EXECUTION.
JUST SOME OF THE THREATS THEY
RECEIVED.
AFTER THESE DEATH THREATS ON
NOVEMBER 25th , MR.
RAFFENSPERGER WROTE AN OP-ED
WHERE HE SAID MY FAMILY VOTED
FOR TRUMP. DONATED TO HIM.
AND ARE NOW BEING THROWN UNDER
THE BUS BY HIM. BUT HE ALSO
NOTED, ELECTIONS ARE THE BEDROCK
OF OUR DEMOCRACY. THEY NEED TO
BE RUN FAIRLY AND PERHAPS MORE
IMPORTANTLY, IMPARTIALLY. THAT'S
NOT PARTISAN. THAT'S JUST
AMERICAN. IT'S IMPORTANT TO
REMEMBER THAT THIS WASN'T JUST A
RANDOM ATTACK. TRUMP WASN'T JUST
CRITICIZING A POLITICIAN OVER
POLICY. OR SAYING HE DIDN'T
AGREE. DONALD TRUMP WAS SAVAGELY
ATTACKING A SECRETARY OF STATE
BECAUSE THE OFFICIAL DID HIS
JOB. AND CERTIFIED THE STATE
ACCORDING TO HOW
THE PEOPLE IN THAT STATE VOTED.
DONALD TRUMP WAS TRYING TO
UNDERMINE OUR ELECTIONS BY
TAKING VOTES AWAY FROM THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE. SO THAT HE
COULD REMAIN PRESIDENT. AND HE
WAS WILLING TO BLAME AND BETRAY
ANYONE, ANYONE, EVEN HIS OWN
SUPPORTERS, IF THEY GOT IN THE
WAY. REMEMBER,
THREATS WERE TO MR.
RAFFENSPERGER'S FAMILY. SO SOME
MAY SAY
TRUMP DIDN'T KNOW HIS ATTACKS
AGAINST MR. RAFFENSPERGER WOULD
RESULT IN DEATH THREATS EXCEPT
ALL OF THIS WAS VERY PUBLIC. THE
SECRETARY PUBLISHED HIS OP-ED IN
"USA TODAY" AND MAJOR NETWORKS
INCLUDING FOX COVERED THE
THREATS. WHAT DID TRUMP DO? DID
HE STOP? DID HE SAY NO, NO,
SUPPORTERS, THAT ISN'T WHAT I
MEANT.
NO, HE DOUBLED DOWN. LET'S SEE
THE EVIDENCE.
&gt;&gt; THIS WAS A MASSIVE FRAUD. WE
SHOULD NEVER TAKE PLACE IN THIS
COUNTRY. WE'RE LIKE A THIRD
WORLD COUNTRY. LOOK AT GEORGIA.
BUT I UNDERSTAND THE SECRETARY
OF STATE, WHO IS REALLY -- HE'S
AN ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE AND
WHETHER HE'S REPUBLICAN OR NOT,
THIS MAN, WHAT HE'S DONE --
&gt;&gt; HIS CHARACTER IN GEORGIA
WHO'S A DISASTER.
&gt;&gt; LET THAT SINK IN. A
REPUBLICAN PUBLIC SERVANT DOING
HIS JOB, WHOSE FAMILY HAD JUST
RECEIVED DEATH THREATS AND THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
LABELED
HIM AN ENEMY OF THE PEOPLE. AND
THAT'S WHY THIS IS DIFFERENT
BECAUSE THIS WAS NOT JUST ONE
ATTACK. OR ONE COMMENT.
THIS WAS ATTACK AFTER ATTACK IN
THE FACE OF CLEAR THREATS OF
VIOLENCE. AND ON DECEMBER 1st,
ANOTHER OFFICIAL GABRIEL
STERLING, A REPUBLICAN WHO VOTED
FOR TRUMP, MADE THIS POINT. AND
APPEALED DIRECTLY TO OUR
PRESIDENT TO STOP HIS DANGEROUS
CONDUCT.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, IT LOOKS LIKE
YOU LIKELY LOST THE STATE OF
GEORGIA. WE'RE INVESTIGATING,
THERE'S ALWAYS A POSSIBILITY. I
GET IT AND YOU HAVE THE RIGHTS
TO GO THROUGH THE COURTS. WHAT
YOU DON'T HAVE THE ABILITY TO DO
AND YOU NEED TO STEP UP AND SAY
THIS, IS STOP INSPIRING PEOPLE
TO COMMIT POTENTIAL ACTS OF
VIOLENCE. SOMEONE IS GOING TO
GET HURT. SOMEONE IS GOING TO
GET SHOT. SOMEONE IS GOING TO
GET KILLED.
&gt;&gt; MR. STERLING PUT THIS
PERFECTLY. IN THIS COUNTRY, WE
CAN APPROPRIATELY CHALLENGE A
CLOSE COUNT. OR GO TO THE
COURTS. OR DISAGREE WITH OTHERS.
OR MAKE BOLD STATEMENTS. BUT
WHAT TRUMP WAS DOING WAS
DIFFERENT. SOMEONE'S GOING TO
GET HURT. SOMEONE'S GOING TO GET
SHOT.
SOMEONE'S GOING TO GET KILLED.
MR. STERLING SAW WHAT TRUMP'S
CONDUCT WAS FOMENTING. HE WARNED
HIM ON LIVE TV THAT VIOLENCE WAS
ALREADY HAPPENING AND THAT MORE
VIOLENCE WAS FORESEEABLE. AND
INEVITABLE. STERLING'S PLEAS
WERE PLAYED OVER AND OVER ON
EVERY NETWORK. RATHER THAN HEED
THAT WARNING, TRUMP ESCALATED
AGAIN. IN EARLY DECEMBER, TRUMP
CALLED GOVERNOR BRIAN KEMP OF
GEORGIA AND PRESSURED HIM TO
HOLD A SPECIAL SESSION OF THE
STATE LEGISLATURE TO OVERTURN
THE ELECTION RESULTS AND TO
APPOINT LEK ELECTORS WHO WOULD
VOTE FOR TRUMP. A FEW WEEKS
LATER ON  DECEMBER 23rd , TRUMP
CALLED THE CHIEF INVESTIGATOR
FOR THE GEORGIA BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATIONS. WHO WAS
CONDUCTING AN AUDIT. AND AN
AUDIT OF THE
SIGNATURE MATCHING PROCEDURES
FOR ABSENTEE BALLOTS. TRUMP
URGED HIM, FIND THE FRAUD. AND
CLAIMED THE OFFICIAL WOULD BE A
NATIONAL HERO IF HE DID. LET'S
CALL THIS WHAT IT IS. HE WAS
ASKING THE OFFICIAL TO SAY THERE
WAS EVIDENCE OF FRAUD WHEN THERE
WASN'T ANY. THE OFFICIAL REFUSED
AND THE INVESTIGATION WAS
COMPLETED. AND
ON DECEMBER 29th, RAFFENSPERGER
ANNOUNCED THE AUDIT FOUND QUOTE
NO FRAUDULENT ABSENTEE BALLOTS
WITH A QUOTE 99% CONFIDENCE
LEVEL. ON JANUARY 3rd TRUMP
TWEETED ABOUT A CALL HE HAD
WITH GEORGIA ELECTION OFFICIALS
THE DAY BEFORE. HE SAID AND I
QUOTE -- I SPOKE TO SECRETARY OF
STATE RAFFENSPERGER YESTERDAY
ABOUT FULTON COUNTY AND VOTER
FRAUD IN GEORGIA. HE WAS
UNWILLING OR UNABLE TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS SUCH AS THE BALLOTS
UNDER THE TABLE SCAM, BALLOT
DESTRUCTION, OUT OF STATE
VOTERS, DEAD VOTERS, AND MORE.
HE HAS NO CLUE. ON JANUARY THE
5th,
THE "WASHINGTON POST" RELEASED A
RECORDING OF THAT CALL WHICH HAD
OCCURRED ON JANUARY 2nd.
REMEMBER JUST FOUR DAYS BEFORE
THE ATTACK ON THE CAPITOL.
HERE'S WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
SAID.
&gt;&gt; IT'S MORE ILLEGAL FOR YOU
THAN IT IS FOR THEM. BECAUSE YOU
KNOW WHAT THEY DID. AND YOU ARE
NOT REPORTING IT. THAT'S -- YOU
KNOW, THAT'S A -- CRIMINAL --
THAT'S A CRIMINAL OFFENSE.
AND YOU KNOW, YOU CAN'T LET THAT
HAPPEN. THAT'S -- THAT'S A BIG
RISK TO YOU AND TO
RYAN. YOUR LAWYER. THAT'S A BIG
RISK.
&gt;&gt; LET'S BE CLEAR. THIS IS THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
TELLING A SECRETARY OF STATE
THAT IF HE DOES NOT FIND
VOTES, HE WILL FACE CRIMINAL
PENALTIES. AND NOT JUST ANY
NUMBER OF VOTES. DONALD TRUMP
WAS ASKING THE SECRETARY OF
STATE TO SOMEHOW FIND THE EXACT
NUMBER OF VOTES DONALD TRUMP
LOST THE STATE
BY. REMEMBER, PRESIDENT BIDEN
WON GEORGIA BY 11,779 VOTES. IN
HIS OWN WORDS, TRUMP SAID ALL I
WANT TO DO IS THIS -- I JUST
WANT TO FIND 11,780 VOTES. HE
WANTED THE SECRETARY OF STATE TO
SOMEHOW FIND THE PRECISE NUMBER,
PLUS ONE, SO THAT HE COULD WIN.
HERE'S WHAT HE SAID.
&gt;&gt; SO LOOK -- ALL I WANT TO DO
IS THIS. I JUST WANT TO FIND
11,780 VOTES,
MORE THAN WE HAVE.
&gt;&gt; HE SAYS IT RIGHT THERE. THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
TELLING A PUBLIC OFFICIAL TO
MANUFACTURE THE EXACT VOTES
NEEDED SO HE CAN WIN. SENATORS,
WE MUST NOT BECOME NUMB TO THIS.
TRUMP DID THIS ACROSS
AFTER STATE. SO OFTEN. SO
LOUDLY. SO PUBLICLY. PUBLIC
OFFICIALS LIKE YOU AND ME
RECEIVED DEATH THREATS AND CALLS
THREATENING CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
ALL BECAUSE TRUMP WANTED TO
REMAIN IN POWER. THESE PUBLIC
OFFICIALS EXERCISED GREAT
POLITICAL AND PERSONAL COURAGE
IN THE FACE OF UNPRECEDENTED
PRESSURE FROM A PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES. SENATORS,
OURS IS A DIALOGUE WITH HISTORY.
A CONVERSATION IN THE PAST WITH
A HOPE FOR THE FUTURE. SENATORS,
I THANK
YOU TODAY FOR YOUR KIND
ATTENTION.
&gt;&gt; GOOD AFTERNOON, I'M
CONGRESSMAN TED LIEU. MY
COLLEAGUE WENT THROUGH PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S EFFORTS TO OVERTURN THE
ELECTION THROUGH THE COURTS. AND
WHEN THAT STARTED FAILING, HIS
DEEPLY DISTURBING ATTACKS ON
STATE AND LOCAL OFFICIALS. I'M
GOING TO WALK THROUGH PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S EXTRAORDINARY EFFORTS
REMAINING UNTIL JANUARY 6th
WHEN HE TRIED AGAIN TO OVERTURN
THE ELECTION.
I FIRST WANT TO HIGHLIGHT
REPRESENTATIVE RASKIN'S QUESTION
TO YOU TODAY. IS THIS AMERICA?
LIKE ALL OF YOU, I LOVE THIS
COUNTRY. I AM AN IMMIGRANT. MY
PARENTS CAME TO OHIO AND WE
STARTED OFF LIVING IN THE
BASEMENT OF A PERSON'S HOME. WE
WERE POOR. AND WE WENT TO FLEA
MARKETS TO SELL GIFTS AND MAKE
ENDS MEET AND OVER MANY YEARS
THEY BUILT A SMALL BUSINESS AND
OPENED SIX GIFT STORES AND
ACHIEVED THE AMERICAN DREAM. ONE
REASON I JOINED THE UNITED
STATES AIR FORCE ON ACTIVE DUTY.
I BELIEVE AMERICA IS AN
EXCEPTIONAL COUNTRY. I WAS
TRAINED AS A PROSECUTOR AT
MAXWELL AIR FORCE BASE IN
ALABAMA AND I REMAIN IN THE
RESERVES BECAUSE WE'RE THE
GREATEST COUNTRY IN THE WORLD.
BUT HOW DID OUR EXCEPTIONAL
COUNTRY TO THE GET POINT WHERE A
VIOLENT MOB ATTACKED OUR
CAPITOL, MURDERING A POLICE
OFFICER, ASSAULTING OVER 140
OTHER OFFICERS, HOW DO WE GET TO
THE POINT WHERE RIOTERS
DESECRATED,
DEFILED AND DISHONORED YOUR
SENATE CHAMBER? THE VERY PLACE
WHERE YOU SIT BECAME A CRIME
SCENE AND WHERE NATIONAL GUARD
TROOPS STILL PATROL OUTSIDE,
WEARING BODY ARMOR. I'LL SHOW
YOU HOW WE GOT HERE. PRESIDENT
DONALD J. TRUMP RAN OUT OF
NON-VIOLENT OPTIONS TO MAINTAIN
POWER.
AFTER HIS EFFORTS IN THE COURTS
AND THREATENING OFFICIAL FAILED.
HE TURNED TO PRIVATELY AND
PUBLICLY ATTACKING MEMBERS OF
HIS OWN PARTY. IN THE HOUSE AND
IN THE
SENATE. HE WOULD PUBLICLY BAIT
SENATORS. NAMING THEM IN SOCIAL
MEDIA. FOR EXAMPLE, ON DECEMBER
18th, PRESIDENT TRUMP NAMED AT
SENATOR MAJORITY LEADER AND AT
REPUBLICAN SENATORS TELLING THEM
THEY HAVE TO GET TOUGHER OR THEY
WON'T HAVE A REPUBLICAN PARTY
ANYMORE. WE WON THE PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION BY A LOT. FIGHT FOR IT.
DON'T LET THEM TAKE IT AWAY.
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS SUGGESTING
TO MEMBERS OF THE SENATE IF THEY
DIDN'T HELP HIM TRY TO OVERTURN
THE ELECTION, THERE WOULD
BE CONSEQUENCES. ON DECEMBER
24th, PRESIDENT TRUMP WROTE -- I
SAY AT LEAST EIGHTH REPUBLICAN
SENATORS FROM LOSING IN THE LAST
RIGGED FOR PRESIDENT ELECTION.
NOW THEY ALMOST ALL SIT BACK AND
WATCH ME FIGHT AGAINST A CROOKED
AND VICIOUS -- RADICAL LEFT
DEMOCRATS. I WILL AND ALL
CAPITAL LETTERS HE WROTE, NEVER
FORGET EXCLAMATION POINT.
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS TELLING YOU
THAT YOU OWE HIM. THAT IF YOU
DON'T HELP HIM FIGHT TO OVERTURN
THE RESULTS HE WILL NEVER FORGET
AND THERE WOULD BE CONSEQUENCES.
THESE ARE THE THREATS JUST LIKE
THE ONES HE MADE TO STATE AND
LOCAL OFFICIALS AND IT
CONTINUED.
ON DECEMBER 29th, PRESIDENT
TRUMP TWEETED -- CAN YOU IMAGINE
THE REPUBLICANS THROW A
PRESIDENT ELECTION FROM THE
DEMOCRATS? ALL HELL WOULD BREAK
OUT. REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP ONLY
WANTS THE PATH OF LEAST
RESISTANCE. OUR LEADERS, NOT ME
OF COURSE, ARE PATHETIC.
THEY ONLY KNOW HOW TO LOSE. PS,
I GOT MANY SENATORS AND
CONGRESSMEN AND CONGRESSWOMAN
ELECTED. I DO BELIEVE THEY
FORGOT.
PRESIDENT TRUMP TARGETED
SENATORS AND MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
ON SOCIAL MEDIA CALLING THEM
PATHETIC FOR LETTING THE
ELECTION GET QUOTE STOLEN FROM
THEM. ON JANUARY 4th, TWO
DAYS BEFORE THE ATTACK,
PRESIDENT TRUMP TWEETED -- THE
CAUCUS WITHIN THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY WILL GO DOWN IN INFAMY AS
WEAK AND INEFFECTIVE GARDENS OF
THE NATION. NOW HE'S MOCKING
SOME REPUBLICAN MEMBERS AS THE
SURRENDER CAUCUS, CALLING THEM
WEAK AND INEFFECTIVE BECAUSE
THEY WERE NOT PRETENDING HE HAD
WON WHEN IN FACT HE HAD NOT. AND
THEN THE VERY DAY BEFORE THE
ATTACK, PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
THREATS GREW EVEN MORE HEATED
AND SPECIFIC TOWARDS REPUBLICANS
THAT HE CONSIDERED TO BE PART OF
THAT SURRENDER CAUCUS. NOW WE'VE
SHOWN THINK TWEET BEFORE. BUT I
WANT TO DRAW YOUR ATTENTION TO
HOW THE PRESIDENT WAS NOT JUST
INCITING HIS BASE, BUT HOW HE
WAS ALSO CALLING OUT SPECIFIC
SENATE REPUBLICANS AT THE END OF
THIS TWEET. THIS IS A SPECIFIC
WARNING TO ANYONE WHO WON'T HELP
HIM OVERTURN THE RESULTS. ANYONE
WHO WAS AGAINST THE PRESIDENT
BECAME AN ENEMY. AND LET ME BE
VERY CLEAR, THE PRESIDENT WASN'T
JUST COMING FOR ONE OR TWO
PEOPLE OR DEMOCRATS LIKE ME. HE
WAS COMING FOR YOU. FOR
DEMOCRATIC AND REPUBLICAN
SENATORS. HE WAS COMING FOR ALL
OF US. JUST AS THE MOB DID AT
HIS DIRECTION. IN ADDITION TO
GOING AFTER SENATORS AND MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS, PRESIDENT TRUMP
ALSO PRESSURED OUR JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT TO INVESTIGATE THE
FALSE CLAIMS THAT THE ELECTION
WAS STOLEN. THAT THE PRESIDENT'S
DIRECTION, ATTORNEY GENERAL
WILLIAM BARR A LOYAL MEMBER OF
THE PRESIDENT'S CABINET,
AUTHORIZED FEDERAL PROSECUTORS
TO PURSUE SUBSTANTIAL
ALLEGATIONS OF VOTING AND VOTE
TABULATION IRREGULARITIES. BILL
BARR PURSUING THESE ALLEGATIONS
SPARKED AN OUTCRY. 16 ASSISTANT
U.S. ATTORNEYS IN THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION URGED THE
ATTORNEY GENERAL TO CEASE THE
INVESTIGATIONS BECAUSE THEY HAD
NOT SEEN EVIDENCE OF ANY
SUBSTANTIAL ANOMALIES. THAT
MEANS THEY DID NOT FIND ANY
EVIDENCE OF REAL FRAUD. ATTORNEY
GENERAL BARR PURSUED THE
INVESTIGATIONS ANYWAYS. AND
AFTER HIS INVESTIGATION, THIS IS
WHAT HE FOUND. QUOTE -- WE HAVE
NOT SEEN FRAUD ON A SCALE THAT
COULD HAVE AFFECTED A DIFFERENT
OUTCOME IN THE ELECTION. TWO
WEEKS LATER, ON  DECEMBER 14th ,
THE ELECTORS VOTED TO GIVE JOE
BIDEN 306 ELECTORAL VOTES AND
ENSURED HIS VICTORY. THE
FOLLOWING DAY BILL BARR
RESIGNED. ATTORNEY GENERAL BARR
HAD LOYALLY SERVED PRESIDENT
TRUMP. HE HAD NEVER PUBLICLY
COME OUT AGAINST THE PRESIDENT.
BUT FOR BILL BARR, MAKING UP
ELECTION FRAUD CLAIMS AND SAYING
THE ELECTION WAS STOLEN WAS A
BRIDGE TOO FAR.
BILL BARR MADE CLEAR THAT
ATTEMPTING TO OVERTURN THE
ELECTION RESULTS CROSSED A LINE.
ACCORDING TO A NEWS REPORT, BILL
BARR THE HIGHEST LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICIAL IN THE LAND, TOLD
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP TO HIS
FACE, THAT HIS THEORIES OF
ELECTION FRAUD WERE QUOTE --
BULL S [ BLEEP ]. UNQUOTE. WHEN
BILL BARR RESIGNED HIS FORMER
DEPUTY JEFF ROSEN TOOK HIS
PLACE. PRESIDENT TRUMP INITIALLY
TWEETED ABOUT MR. ROSEN HE WAS
AN OUTSTANDING PERSON WHEN HE
WAS ANNOUNCED HE WOULD BECOME
ACTING ATTORNEY GENERALMENT BUT
PRESIDENT TRUMP PUT THE SAME
PRESSURE ON HIM THAT HE HAD DONE
WITH STATE OFFICIALS AND MEMBERS
OF
CONGRESS AND U.S. SENATORS AND
HIS
FORMER ATTORNEY GENERAL.
PRESIDENT TRUMP PORTEDLY
SUMMONED ACTING ATTORNEY GENERAL
ROSEN TO THE OVAL OFFICE THE
NEXT DAY AND PRESSURED HIM TO
APPOINT SPECIAL COUNSELS TO KEEP
INVESTIGATING THE ELECTION.
INCLUDING UNFOUNDED ACCUSATIONS
OF WIDESPREAD VOTER FRAUD AND
ALSO TO INVESTIGATE DOMINION THE
VOTING MACHINES' FIRM. ACCORDING
TO REPORTS, MR. ROSEN REFUSED.
HE MAINTAINED THAT HE WOULD MAKE
DECISIONS BASED ON THE FACTS AND
THE LAW. AND REMINDED PRESIDENT
TRUMP WHAT HE HAD ALREADY BEEN
TOLD BY ATTORNEY GENERAL BILL
BARR. THAT THE DEPARTMENT HAD
ALREADY INVESTIGATED AND QUOTE
FOUND NO EVIDENCE OF WIDESPREAD
FRAUD. BUT PRESIDENT TRUMP
REFUSED TO FOLLOW THE FACTS AND
THE LAW. SO THE PRESIDENT TURNED
TO SOMEONE HE KNEW WOULD DO HIS
BIDDING. HE TURNED TO JEFFREY
CLARK, AND ANOTHER JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT LAWYER, WHO HAD
ALLEGEDLY EXPRESSED SUPPORT FOR
USING THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE TO INVESTIGATE THE
ELECTION RESULTS. SHORTLY AFTER
ACTING ATTORNEY GENERAL ROSEN
FOLLOWED HIS DUTY AND THE LAW TO
REFUSE TO REOPEN THE
INVESTIGATIONS, PRESIDENT TRUMP
INTENDED TO REPLACE MR. ROSEN
WITH MR. CLARK TO TRY TO STOP
CONGRESS FROM CERTIFYING THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE RESULTS.
ACCORDING TO REPORTS, WHITE
HOUSE COUNSEL PAT CIPOLLONE
ADVISED PRESIDENT TRUMP NOT TO
FIRE ACTING ATTORNEY GENERAL
ROSEN. DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS HAD
ALSO THREATENED TO RESIGN EN
MASSE IF HE HAD FIRED ROSEN.
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S ACTIONS TIME
AND TIME AGAIN MADE CLEAR THAT
HE WOULD DO ANYTHING AND
PRESSURE ANYONE IF IT MEANT
OVERTURNING THE ELECTION
RESULTS. WE WATCHED PRESIDENT
TRUMP USE ANY MEANS
PURSUE THIS AIM, FEVERISHLY
GRASPING FOR STRAWS AND
RETAINING HIS HOLD ON THE
PRESIDENCY BUT ALL HIS EFFORTS
PRIOR TO  JANUARY 6th  KEPT
FAILING AND FINALLY IN HIS
DESPERATION HE TURNED ON HIS OWN
VICE PRESIDENT.
HE PRESSURED MIKE PENCE TO
VIOLATE HIS CONSTITUTIONAL OATH
AND TO REFUSE TO CERTIFY THE
OATH. PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD
DECIDED THAT VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE WHO PRESIDED OVER THE
CERTIFICATION, COULD SOMEHOW
STOP IT. AS PENCE WOULD LATER
CONFIRM, THE VICE PRESIDENT DOES
NOT HAVE THAT POWER IN THE
CONSTITUTION. AND PRESIDENT
TRUMP NEVER TRIED TO EXPLAIN WHY
HE THOUGHT THE VICE PRESIDENT
COULD BLOCK THE CERTIFICATION OF
ELECTION RESULTS. HE JUST BEGAN
RELENTLESSLY ATTACKING THE VICE
PRESIDENT. PUBLICLY, PRESIDENT
TRUMP ATTACKED PENCE ON SOCIAL
MEDIA AND AT RALLIES. GETTING
HIS SUPPORTERS TO BELIEVE THAT
MIKE PENCE COULD STOP THIS
CERTIFICATION ON JANUARY 6th.
HERE'S WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP SAID
IN GEORGIA ON JANUARY 4th.
&gt;&gt; AND I HOPE MIKE PENCE COMES
THROUGH FOR US. I HAVE TO TELL
YOU. I HOPE THAT TOUR GREAT VICE
PRESIDENT -- OUR GREAT VICE
PRESIDENT, COMES THROUGH FOR US.
HE'S A GREAT GUY. BECAUSE IF HE
DOESN'T COME THROUGH, I WON'T
LIKE HIM QUITE AS MUCH.
&gt;&gt; BEHIND CLOSED DOORS,
PRESIDENT TRUMP APPLIED
SIGNIFICANT PRESSURE TO HIS
SECOND IN COMMAND. MULTIPLE
REPORTS CONFIRMED THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP USED HIS PERSONAL
ATTORNEYS AND OTHER OFFICIALS TO
PRESSURE THE VICE PRESIDENT.
TRUMP REPORTEDLY TOLD ALMOST
ANYONE WHO CALLED HIM TO ALSO
CALL THE VICE PRESIDENT.
ACCORDING TO REPORTS, WHEN MIKE
PENCE WAS IN THE OVAL OFFICE,
PRESIDENT TRUMP WOULD CALL
PEOPLE TO TRY TO GET THEM TO
CONVINCE THE VICE PRESIDENT TO
HELP THEM. AND PRESIDENT TRUMP
KEPT REPEATING THE MYTH THAT
PENCE COULD STOP THE
CERTIFICATION TO HIS BASE TO
ANGER THEM. HOPING TO INTIMIDATE
MIKE PENCE. ON THE MORNING OF
THE RALLY ON JANUARY 6th ,
PRESIDENT TRUMP TWEETED --
MIKE PENCE HAS TO DO IS SPEND
THEM BACK TO THE STATES ALL CAPS
HE WROTE -- AND WE WIN.
DO IT MIKE, THIS IS A TIME FOR
EXTREME COURAGE. PRESIDENT TRUMP
LATER WENT TO ATTACK PENCE
NEARLY DOZEN TIMES IN HIS SPEECH
AT THE SAVE AMERICA MARCH.
PRIVATELY, IN PERSON BEFORE
PENCE HEADED OVER TO OVERSEE THE
JOINT SESSION ON JANUARY 6th.
PRESIDENT TRUMP AGAIN THREATENED
PENCE. YOU CAN EITHER GO DOWN IN
HISTORY AS A PATRIOT MR. TRUMP
TOLD HIM, ACCORDING TO TWO
PEOPLE BRIEFED ON THE
CONVERSATION. OR YOU CAN GO DOWN
IN HISTORY AS A.
AS A VETERAN I FIND IT DEEPLY
DISHONORABLE OUR FORMER
PRESIDENT AND COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
EQUATED PATRIOTISM WITH
VIOLATING THE CONSTITUTION AND
OVERTURNING THE ELECTION. YOU
WILL SEE AND HEAR THE
CONSEQUENCES OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S REPEATED ATTACKS ON THE
VICE PRESIDENT THE CHANTS OF
TRAITOR AND THE CHANTS OF HANG
MIKE PENCE. THANKFULLY, VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE STOOD HIS GROUND
LIKE OUR OTHER BRAVE OFFICIALS
STOOD THEIR GROUND. HE REFUSED
THE PRESIDENT AND FULFILLED HIS
DUTY ON  JANUARY 6th. EVEN AFTER
THE CAPITOL WAS ATTACKED, EVEN
AFTER HE WAS PERSONALLY
TARGETED. EVEN AFTER HIS FAMILY
WAS TARGETED. VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE STOOD STRONG AND CERTIFIED
THE ELECTION. VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE SHOWED US WHAT IT MEANS TO
BE AN AMERICAN. WHAT IT MEANS TO
SHOW COURAGE. HE PUT HIS
COUNTRY, HIS OATH, HIS VALUES,
AND HIS MORALS ABOVE THE WILL OF
ONE MAN. THE PRESIDENT HAD TRIED
EVERYTHING IN HIS POWER TO SEIZE
-- EVERYTHING IN HIS ATTEMPT TO
SEIZE POWER FROM THE RIGHTFUL
VICTOR OF THE ELECTION.
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S EXTRAORDINARY
ACTIONS GREW INCREASE GRAY MORE
DESPERATE. YOU SAW HIM GO FROM
PURSUING CLAIMS IN THE COURTS TO
THREATENING STATE AND LOCAL
ELECTION OFFICIALS TO THEN
ATTACKING MEMBERS OF CONGRESS IN
THE SENATE AND TO COMPROMISING
ON JUSTICE DEPARTMENT AND THEN
TO ATTACKING THE REPUBLICAN VICE
PRESIDENT. THESE BRAVE PUBLIC
SERVANTS WERE BEING PRESSURED BY
THE PRESIDENT TO OVERTURN THE
RESULTS AND SOME OF THEM AND
THEIR FAMILIES GOT DEATH
THREATS. THANKFULLY, AT EVERY
TURN, OUR DEMOCRATIC PROCESSES
PREVAILED AND THE RULE OF LAW
PREVAILED. BECAUSE ONLY BECAUSE
ALL THESE PEOPLE STAYED STRONG
AND REFUSED PRESIDENT TRUMP THAT
OUR REPUBLIC HELD FAST. AND THE
WILL OF THE ELECTORATE WAS SEEN
THROUGH. AND AT THIS POINT,
PRESIDENT DONALD J. TRUMP RAN
OUT OF NON-VIOLENT OPTIONS TO
MAINTAIN POWER. I BEGAN TO RAISE
-- I BEGAN TODAY BY RAISING THE
QUESTION OF HOW WE GOT HERE.
WHAT YOU SAW WAS A MAN SO
DESPERATE TO CLING TO POWER THAT
HE TRIED EVERYTHING HE COULD TO
KEEP IT. AND WHEN HE RAN OUT OF
NON-VIOLENT MEASURES, HE TURNED
TO THE VIOLENT MOB THAT ATTACKED
YOUR SENATE CHAMBER ON  JANUARY
6th.
AS YOU CAST YOUR VOTE AFTER THIS
TRIAL, I HOPE EACH OF YOU WILL
THINK OF THE BRAVERY OF ALL
THESE PEOPLE WHO SAID NO TO
PRESIDENT TRUMP. BECAUSE THEY
KNEW THAT THIS WAS NOT RIGHT.
THAT THIS WAS NOT AMERICA.
&gt;&gt;&gt; NEXT, STACEY PLASKETT OF THE
VIRGIN ISLANDS WILL SHOW HOW
PRESIDENT TRUMP WELCOMED AND
AMPLIFIED HIS SUPPORTERS' PLANS
FOR INSURRECTION AGAINST THE
UNION. I -- SHOULD SAY AS LEAD
MANAGER, THIS IS A MOMENT OF
SPECIAL PRIDE FOR ME BECAUSE
REPRESENTATIVE PLASKETT IS NOT
ONLY THE FIRST DELEGATE EVER TO
BE ON A TEAM OF IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS IN AMERICAN HISTORY,
BUT SHE WAS ALSO MY LAW STUDENT
AT AMERICAN UNIVERSITY'S
WASHINGTON COLLEGE OF LAW. AND I
HOPE I'M NOT VIOLATING ANY
FEDERAL EDUCATIONAL RECORDS LAWS
WHEN I SAY SHE WAS AN A. STUDENT
THEN AND SHE'S AN A-PLUS STUDENT
NOW. STACEY PLASKETT?
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH.
HI. MR. PRESIDENT, DISTINGUISHED
SENATORS, I AM STACEY PLASKETT.
AND I REPRESENT THE PEOPLE OF
THE VIRGIN ISLANDS OF THE UNITED
STATES. OVER THIS PAST WEEKEND,
MY 11-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER I
OVERHEARD HER TELLING ONE OF MY
SONS MOMMY DOESN'T SEEM REALLY
NERVOUS ABOUT THE IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL TO WHICH THAT SON SOUNDING
LIKE AN OLDER BROTHER, YOU WILL
LEARN THAT MOST OF THE TIME MOM
MY REALISMS TO HAVE IT UNDER
CONTROL. WE KNOW THAT'S NOT
ALWAYS THE CASE AS PARENTS BUT I
HAVE LEARNED THROUGHOUT MY LIFE
THAT PREPARATION AND TRUTH CAN
CARRY YOU FAR. CAN ALLOW YOU TO
SPEAK TRUTH TO POWER. I HAVE
LEARNED THAT AS A YOUNG BLACK
GIRL, GROWING UP IN THE PROJECTS
IN BROOKLYN, HOUSING COMMUNITY
ON ST. CROIX, SENT TO THE MOST
UNLIKELIEST OF SETTINGS, AND NOW
AS AN ADULT WOMAN, REPRESENTING
AN ISLAND TERRITORY SPEAKING TO
THE U.S. SENATE. AND BECAUSE OF
TRUTH, I AM CONFIDENT TODAY,
SPEAKING BEFORE YOU, BECAUSE
TRUTH AND FACTS ARE
OVERWHELMING, THAT OUR
PRESIDENT, THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES, INCITED A MOB TO
STORM THE CAPITOL, TO ATTEMPT TO
STOP
THE CERTIFICATION OF A
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION. MY FELLOW
MANAGERS HAVE SHOWN AND WILL
CONTINUE TO SHOW CLEAR EVIDENCE
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP INCITED A
VIOLENT MOB TO STORM OUR CAPITOL
WHEN HE RAN OUT OF NON-VIOLENT
ASSEMBLED, THAT MOB, AT THE
PRESIDENT'S DIRECTION, ERUPTED
INTO THE BLOODIEST ATTACK ON
THIS CAPITOL SINCE 1814. SOME OF
YOU HAVE SAID THAT THERE'S NO
WAY THE PRESIDENT COULD HAVE
KNOWN HOW VIOLENT THE MOB WOULD
BE. THAT IS FALSE. BECAUSE THE
VIOLENCE, IT WAS FORESEEABLE.
I WANT TO SHOW YOU WHY THIS
VIOLENCE WAS FORESEEABLE AND WHY
DONALD TRUMP WAS DIFFERENT THAN
ANY OTHER POLITICIAN JUST
TELLING THEIR FIGHTERS, THEIR
SUPPORTERS, TO FIGHT FOR
SOMETHING. THE VIOLENCE THAT
OCCURRED ON JANUARY 6th , LIKE
THE ATTACK ITSELF,
APPEAR. YOU'LL SEE THAT DONALD
TRUMP KNEW THE PEOPLE HE WAS
INCITING, HE SAW THE VIOLENCE
THAT THEY WERE CAPABLE OF, AND
HE HAD A PATTERN AND PRACTICE OF
PRAISING AND ENCOURAGING THAT
VIOLENCE, NEVER, EVER CONDEMNING
IT. AND YOU'LL SEE THAT THIS --
IN SECRET. THE INSURGENTS
BELIEVED THAT THEY WERE DOING
THE DUTY OF THEIR PRESIDENT.
THEY WERE FOLLOWING HIS ORDERS.
AND SO THEY PUBLICIZED IT
OPENLY, LOUDLY, PROUDLY, EXACT
BLUEPRINTS OF HOW THE ATTACK
WOULD BE MADE. LAW ENFORCEMENT
SAW THESE POSTINGS AND REPORTED
THAT THESE INSURGENTS WOULD
VIOLENTLY ATTACK THE CAPITOL
ITSELF.
THIS WAS NOT JUST A COMMENT BY
AN OFFICIAL TO FIGHT FOR A
CAUSE. THIS WAS MONTHS
OF CULTIVATING A BASE OF PEOPLE
WHO WERE VIOLENT. PRAISING THAT
VIOLENCE AND THEN LEADING THAT
VIOLENCE, THAT RAGE, STRAIGHT AT
OUR DOOR. THE POINT IS THIS. BY
THE TIME HE CALLED THE CAVALRY
OF HIS THOUSANDS OF SUPPORTERS
ON JANUARY 6th  IN AN EVENT HE
HAD INVITED THEM TO, HE HAD
EVERY REASON TO KNOW THAT THEY
WERE ARMED, THAT THEY WERE
VIOLENT, AND THAT THEY WOULD
ACTUALLY FIGHT. HE KNEW WHO HE
WAS CALLING. AND THE VIOLENCE
THEY WERE CAPABLE OF. AND HE
STILL GAVE THAT MARCHING ORDER
TO GO TO THE CAPITOL AND QUOTE
FIGHT LIKE HELL. AND STOP THE
STEAL. MAKE NO MISTAKE. THE
VIOLENCE WAS NOT JUST
FORESEEABLE TO PRESIDENT TRUMP.
THE VIOLENCE WAS WHAT HE
DELIBERATELY ENCOURAGED. AS
EARLY AS SEPTEMBER, TRUMP SET
THE PRECEDENT THAT WHEN ASKED TO
DENOUNCE VIOLENCE, HE WOULD DO
THE OPPOSITE. AND ENCOURAGE IT.
NOW IF THE PRESIDENT HAD ONLY
SAID SOMETHING ONCE ABOUT
FIGHTING TO STOP THE STEAL, AND
VIOLENCE ERUPTED, THERE WOULD BE
NO WAY TO KNOW HE INTENDED TO
INCITE IT OR SAW IT COMING. BUT
JUST AS THE PRESIDENT SPENT
MONTHS SPREADING HIS BIG LIE OF
THE ELECTION, HE ALSO SPENT
MONTHS CULTIVATING GROUPS OF
PEOPLE WHO, FOLLOWING HIS
COMMAND, REPEATEDLY ENGAGED IN
REAL, DANGEROUS VIOLENCE.
AND WHEN THEY DID, AND THE
VIOLENCE ERUPTED AS A RESPONSE
TO HIS CALLS TO FIGHT AGAINST
THE STOLEN ELECTION, HE DID NOT
WALK IT BACK. HE DID NOT TELL
THEM NO. HE DID THE OPPOSITE.
THE OPPOSITE. HE PRAISED AND
ENCOURAGED THE VIOLENCE SO THAT
IT WOULD CONTINUE. HE FANNED THE
FLAME OF VIOLENCE. AND IT
WORKED. YOU'LL SEE THIS OVER
TIME. THESE VERY GROUPS AND
INDIVIDUALS WHOSE VIOLENCE THE
PRESIDENT PRAISED. HELPED LEAD
THE ATTACK ON JANUARY 6th. AND
THAT'S HOW WE KNOW CLEARLY THAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP DELIBERATELY
INCITED THIS AND HOW WE KNOW HE
SAW IT COMING. THERE ARE MANY
EXAMPLES WHERE THE PRESIDENT
ENGAGED IN THIS PATTERN. AND I'M
JUST GOING TO WALK YOU THROUGH A
FEW OF THEM. LET'S START WITH
THE PRESIDENT TRUMP'S INCITEMENT
OF THE PROUD BOYS. MANY OF YOU
HAVE HEARD OF THIS GROUP, WHICH
SINCE 2018, HAS BEEN CLASSIFIED
BY THE FBI AS AN EXTREMIST
ORGANIZATION. SINCE THAT
CLASSIFICATION, THE GROUP HAS
REPEATEDLY ENGAGED IN SERIOUS
ACTS OF VIOLENCE. INCLUDING AT
PRO TRUMP RALLIES. AND ONE SUCH
ACT, ON  SEPTEMBER 7th , THE
PROUD BOYS ATTACKED A MAN WITH A
BASEBALL BAT. AND THEN PUNCHED
HIM WHILE HE WAS DOWN ON THE
GROUND. ON SEPTEMBER 29th,
DURING A PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE,
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS ASKED
SPECIFICALLY IF HE WAS WILLING
TO CONDEMN WHITE SUPREMACY AND
MILITIA GROUPS, IF HE WAS
WILLING TO TELL THEM TO STAND
DOWN. AND STOP THE VIOLENCE.
LET'S WATCH.
&gt;&gt; BUT ARE YOU WILLING TONIGHT,
TO CONDEMN WHITE SUPREMACISTS
AND MILITIA GROUPS AND TO SAY
THAT THEY NEED TO STAND DOWN AND
NOT ADD TO THE VIOLENCE AT A
NUMBER OF THESE CITIES AS WE SAW
IN KENOSHA AND
AS WE'VE SEEN IN PORTLAND?
&gt;&gt; SURE -- I WOULD SAY --
&gt;&gt; LET'S HEAR NOW THE
PRESIDENT'S RESPONSE.
&gt;&gt; DO IT SIR.
&gt;&gt; DO IT. SAY IT.
&gt;&gt; YOU WANT TO CALL HIM -- WHAT
DO YOU WANT TO CALL THEM? GIVE
THEM A NAME.
&gt;&gt; WHITE SUPREMACISTS. PROUD
BOYS.
&gt;&gt; STAND BACK AND STAND BY.
&gt;&gt; WHEN ASKED TO CONDEMN THE
PROUD BOYS, AND
WHITE SUPREMACISTS, WHAT DID OUR
PRESIDENT SAY? HE SAID STAND
BACK AND STAND BY. HIS MESSAGE
WAS HEARD LOUD AND CLEAR. THE
GROUP ADOPTED THAT PHRASE, STAND
BACK AND STAND BY, AS THEIR
OFFICIAL SLOGAN. THEY CREATED
MERCHANDISE WITH THEIR NEW
SLOGAN WHICH THEY WORE PROUDLY
ACROSS THEIR BACKS AT TRUMP'S
RALLIES. AND THEY FOLLOWED THE
PRESIDENT'S ORDERS. YOU'LL SEE
MORE ABOUT THIS LATER IN THE
TRIAL. BUT YOU WILL SEE IN THESE
PHOTOS TO THE LEFT, DOMINIC
PIZZOLA AND TO THE RIGHT WILLIAM
PEPE. TWO OF THE LEADERS OF THE
GROUP HEADING TO THE CAPITOL ON
JANUARY 6th.
THEY WERE LATER CHARGED WITH
WORKING TOGETHER TO OBSTRUCT LAW
ENFORCEMENT. AS WE GO THROUGH
THIS EVIDENCE, I WANT YOU TO
KEEP IN MIND THESE WORDS BY
PRESIDENT TRUMP WHEN ASKED TO
CONDEMN VIOLENCE. STAND BACK AND
STAND BY.
AND SEE EXAMPLE AFTER EXAMPLE OF
THE KINDS OF PEOPLE LIKE THE
PROUD BOYS WHO HE HAD STANDING
BY ON JANUARY 6th.
BY OCTOBER, AS MY COLLEAGUES MR.
CASTRO AND MR. SWALWELL SHOWED
YOU, DONALD TRUMP WAS ESCALATING
HIS BIG LIE THAT THE ONLY WAY HE
COULD LOSE THE ELECTION WAS IF
IT WAS RIGGED.
SO AS ELECTION DAY NEARED, HIS
SUPPORTERS WERE FRUSTRATED. AND
THEY WERE ANGRY. THEY WERE
PREPARED TO ENSURE HIS VICTORY
BY ANY MEANS NECESSARY. ONE OF
THESE VIOLENT ACTS WAS ON
OCTOBER 30th. SOME TIME AFTER
12:30 P.M. A CARAVAN OF MORE
THAN 50 TRUCKS COVERED IN PRO
TRUMP CAMPAIGN GEAR CONFRONTED
AND SURROUNDED CARS CARRYING
BIDEN AND HARRIS CAMPAIGN
WORKERS. AND A BIDEN/HARRIS
CAMPAIGN BUS AS THEY WERE
TRAVELING DOWN INTERSTATE
35 FROM SAN ANTONIO TO AUSTIN.
ACCORDING TO WITNESSES, THIS
CARAVAN REPEATEDLY TRIED TO
FORCE THE BUS YOU LAW AND YOU
SEE IN THAT VIDEO TO SLOW DOWN
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE HIGHWAY AND
THEN TO RUN IT OFF THE ROAD.
WHAT THAT VIDEO YOU JUST SAW
DOES NOT SHOW IS THAT THE BUS
THAT THEY TRIED TO RUN OFF THE
ROAD WAS
FILLED WITH YOUNG CAMPAIGN
STAFF. VOLUNTEERS. SUPPORTERS.
SURROGATES. PEOPLE.
AS THE TRUMP SUPPORTERS CLOSED
IN ON THE BUS, A LARGE BLACK
PICKUP TRUCK ADORNED WITH TRUMP
FLAGS SUDDENLY AND INTENTIONALLY
SWERVED AND CRASHED INTO A CAR
DRIVEN BY A BIDEN/HARRIS
VOLUNTEER. NEWS OF THE EVENT
WENT VIRAL ON SOCIAL MEDIA. THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
IN CAMPAIGN, SAW HIS OWN
SUPPORTERS TRYING TO RUN A BUS
CARRYING HIS OPPONENTS' CAMPAIGN
WORKERS OFF THE HIGHWAY.
TO PHYSICALLY
INTIMIDATE PEOPLE IN THIS
COUNTRY, CAMPAIGNING. HERE WAS
HIS RESPONSE THE NEXT DAY.
&gt;&gt; THREE, TWO, ONE.
GO!  7  7
NOT WELCOME TO THE RED KINGDOM,
WELCOME TO THE RED KINGDOM  7 7
&gt;&gt; THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES TWEETED A
SUPPORTERS TRYING TO DRIVE A BUS
OFF THE ROAD. YOU'LL RECALL IN
THAT FIRST VIDEO THAT I SHOWED
YOU THERE WAS NO SOUND. WELL,
THE ONE THAT HE TWEETED HAD A
FIGHT THEME SONG PLACED TO IT
THAT THE PRESIDENT, THE
PRESIDENT PUT THAT MUSIC TO THAT
VIDEO.
AND HE ADDED AT THE TOP, I LOVE
TEXAS.
BY THE NEXT EVENING, THAT TWEET
THAT HE DID
HAD BEEN VIEWED 12.6 MILLION
TIMES. AND IT WASN'T JUST A
TWEET. ON NOVEMBER 1st, AT A
MICHIGAN RALLY WITH A SEA OF
SUPPORTERS, THE PRESIDENT TALKED
ABOUT THAT INCIDENT AGAIN. HERE
IT IS.
&gt;&gt; DID YOU SEE THE WAY OUR
PEOPLE -- YOU KNOW, THEY WERE
PROTECTING HIS BUS YESTERDAY.
BECAUSE THEY'RE NICE.
SO HIS BUS -- THEY HAD HUNDREDS
OF CARS, TRUMP, TRUMP, TRUMP AND
THE AMERICAN FLAG. THAT'S --
YOU SEE TRUMP AND AMERICAN FLAG.
&gt;&gt; THE PRESIDENT MADE A PUBLIC
JOKE OF VIOLENCE AGAINST
CAMPAIGNERS IN AN AMERICAN
ELECTION. HE MADE LIGHT OF IT.
THIS WAS NOT A JOKE. IN FACT, IT
WAS SO VIOLENT THAT IT PUT SO
MANY PEOPLE IN HARM'S WAY, THAT
THE FBI INVESTIGATED THE
INCIDENT AND THE CRIMINAL
RESPONSIBILITY OF
THOSE WHO ATTACKED THESE
CAMPAIGN WORKERS. NOW, OUR
PRESIDENT, DONALD TRUMP, COULD
HAVE SAID OKAY, I DIDN'T REALIZE
HOW BAD THAT WAS. THIS WAS VERY
VIOLENT. PLEASE STOP. BUT HE
DIDN'T. HE SAW THE INVESTIGATION
AND MADE A STATEMENT IN DEFENSE
OF HIS SUPPORTERS' ATTACK ON THE
BUS WRITING QUOTE -- IN MY
OPINION, THESE PATRIOTS DID
NOTHING WRONG.
ENGAGING IN VIOLENCE FOR HIM
MADE THEM PATRIOTS TO DONALD
TRUMP. FOR ANYONE WHO SAYS
DONALD TRUMP DIDN'T KNOW THE
VIOLENCE HE WAS INCITING, I ASK
YOU TO CONSIDER HIS SUPPORTERS
TRIED TO DRIVE A BUS OFF THE
HIGHWAY IN THE MIDDLE OF THE DAY
TO INTIMIDATE HIS OPPONENT'S
CAMPAIGN WORKERS. AND HIS
RESPONSE WAS TO TWEET THE VIDEO
OF THE INCIDENT THAT HAD FIGHT
MUSIC, JOKE ABOUT IT, AND CALL
THOSE INDIVIDUALS IN THAT
INCIDENT PATRIOTS. AND ONCE
AGAIN, DONALD TRUMP'S PRAISE
WORKED TO INCITE THEM FURTHER.
EMBOLDENED BY THAT PRAISE, THEY
REMAINED READY TO FIGHT. READY
TO STAND BACK AND STAND BY.
THIS LINK IS NOT HYPOTHETICAL.
JUST LIKE WE SAW WITH THE PROUD
BOYS SHOWING UP IN FULL FORCE ON
JANUARY 6th. DONALD TRUMP'S
ENCOURAGEMENT OF THIS ATTACK
MADE SURE HIS SUPPORTERS WERE
READY FOR THE NEXT ONE. THE
CARAVAN BUS ATTACK HAD BEEN
ORGANIZED BY TRUMP SUPPORTER
NAMED KEITH LEE. LEADING UP TO
THE ATTACK ON THE CAM TOLL ON
JANUARY 6th, MR. LEE TEAMED UP
WITH OTHER SUPPORTERS TO FUND
RAISE, TO HELP TO BRING PEOPLE
TO WASHINGTON, D.C. FOR THAT
DAY. THE MORNING OF THE ATTACK,
HE FILMED FOOTAGE OF THE
CAPITOL, POINTED OUT THE
FLIMSINESS OF FENCING AND THEN
ADDRESSED HIS SUPPORTERS BEFORE
THE ATTACK SAYING QUOTE -- AS
SOON AS YOU ALL GET DONE HEARING
THE PRESIDENT, Y'ALL GET TO THE
CAPITOL. WE NEED TO SURROUND
THIS PLACE. DURING THE ATTACK,
HE USED THE BULL HORN TO CALL
OUT FOR THE MOB TO RUSH IN. HE
LATER WENT TO THE ROTUNDA
HIMSELF. AND THEN BACK OUTSIDE
TO URGE THE CROWD TO COME
INSIDE. THESE ARE THE PEOPLE
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP CULTIVATED.
WHO WERE STANDING BY. I'D LIKE
TO LOOK AT ANOTHER EXAMPLE.
AFTER THE ELECTION ON DECEMBER
12th , TRUMP SUPPORTERS GATHERED
EN MASSE
TO PROTEST THE STOLEN ELECTION
IN D.C. IT WAS BILLED BY HIS
LOYALISTS AS THE SECOND MILLION
MAGA MARCH.
THE RALLY WAS ORGANIZED BY WOMEN
FOR AMERICA FIRST. THE SAME
GROUP THAT YOU'LL SEE LATER
SECURED THE PERMIT FOR THE
JANUARY 6th  RALLY AND WHO ELSE
WAS THERE? THE PROUD BOYS.
STANDING BY. DONALD TRUMP DID
NOT ATTEND THAT RALLY. BUT HE
MADE SURE TO MAKE SURE HIS
SUPPORTERS THROUGHOUT THE DAY,
HOW
HE FELT ABOUT THE EVENT. AT 8:47
A.M., HE SENT OUT A TWEET, WE
HAVE JUST BEGUN TO FIGHT.
AND THEN THE RALLY BEGAN. AND
DONALD TRUMP'S ALLIES WHO SPOKE
AT THE RALLY, CARRIED ON HIS
MESSAGE OF THE STOLEN ELECTION.
AND THE IMPORTANCE OF FIGHTING
TO STOP THE STEAL.
HERE'S NICHOLAS FUENTES A
COMMENTATOR WHO HAD ORGANIZED A
STOP THE STEAL RALLY IN
MICHIGAN.
&gt;&gt; THE FIRST MILLION MAGA MARCH
WE PROMISED IF THE GOP WOULD NOT
DO EVERYTHING IN THEIR POWER TO
KEEP TRUMP IN OFFICE. WE WOULD
DESTROY THE GOP. [ CHEERING AND
APPLAUSE ]
AND IF WE -- IN WASHINGTON,
D.C., FOR A SECOND MILLION MAGA
MARCH, WE'RE TIRED OF MAKING
PROMISES. AND IT HAS TO HAPPEN
NOW. WE ARE GOING TO DESTROY THE
GOP.
[ CHEERING AND APPLAUSE ]
[ CHANTING ]
&gt;&gt; DESTROY THE GOP.
&gt;&gt; THOSE WORDS, THAT WAS TRUMP'S
MESSAGE. DESTROY ANYONE WHO
WON'T LISTEN.
WHO WON'T HELP THEM TAKE THE
ELECTION FOR TRUMP.
AND AS YOU WILL SEE, THIS WAS
JUST THE PREVIEW FOR FUENETES
WHO LIKE THE PROUD BOYS AND
TRUMP CARAVAN ORGANIZERS, WOULD
LATER HEED THE PRESIDENT'S CALL
AND COME TO WASHINGTON AND BE
THERE ON JANUARY 6th.
LATER IN THE RALLY, A FORMER
TRUMP CAMPAIGN SPOKESWOMAN
KATRINA PEARSON ALSO SPOKE.
DURING HER SPEECH, SHE STATED
QUOTE
&gt;&gt; REFERRING TO THE FIGHT TO
STOP THE STEEL AND THEN SHE
ADDED WE KNEW BOTH REPUBLICAN
AND DEMOCRATS WERE AGAINST WE
PEOPLE WILL, WE THE PEOPLE. WE
ARE THE CAVALRY. NO ONE IS
COMING FOR US. IT IS CLEAR THAT
TRUMP AND SOME OF HIS A
SUPPORTERS SAW THIS AS WAR, A
FIGHT AGAINST ANYONE WHO WAS
UNWILLING TO DO WHATEVER IT TOOK
TO KEEP DONALD TRUMP IN POWER.
WE ARE THE CALVARY AND PRESIDENT
TRUMP CONTINUE TO REINFORCE
THESE SUPPORTIVE MESSAGES
THROUGHOUT
THE DAY. AT 1:48 PM AFTER BOTH
SPEECHES, HE RETWEETED HIS
DEPUTY CHIEF OF STAFF'S TWEET
SHOWING HIS CROWD THAT HE HAD
FLOWN OVER ON MARINE ONE AND HE
TWEETED QUOTE THANK YOU
PATRIOTS. THESE PEOPLE WERE AS
YOU CAN SEE GATHERED EN MASSE
AND BEING TOLD BY THE
PRESIDENT'S ALLIES THAT THEIR
ELECTION HAD BEEN STOLEN AND
THEY WERE TOLD THEY WERE THE
CALVARY. NO ONE ELSE COULD
DO IT AND AFTER HEARING THESE
SPEECHES AND SEEING THE
PRESIDENT SUPPORT, THIS IS WHAT
DONALD TRUMPS CALVARY WAS
CAPABLE OF.
&gt;&gt; WHAT YOU JUST SAW WAS THE
VIOLENCE THAT ENSUED AFTER THAT
RALLY. THE PROUD BOYS AFTER THAT
RALLY ENGAGED IN SERIOUS ACTS OF
VIOLENCE IN DOWNTOWN DC. SOME
TRUMP SUPPORTERS AND SELF
IDENTIFIED PROUD BOYS VANDALIZED
CHURCHES AFTER THAT RALLY. IF WE
LOOK AT THESE EVENTS, IT IS
CLEAR HOW WE
GOT HERE BECAUSE WHAT DID THE
PRESIDENT DO AFTER THAT? HE
TURNED RIGHT AROUND AND A LITTLE
OVER A WEEK LATER HE BEGAN
COORDINATING THE JANUARY 6 SAVE
AMERICA RALLY WITH THE SAME
PEOPLE WHO HAD PLANTED THE
SECOND MILLION MAGGOT MARCH.
YOU WILL RECALL THAT THE WOMEN
FOR AMERICA FIRST HAD ORGANIZED
THAT SECOND MILLION MARCH. THEY
HAD ORIGINALLY PLANNED RALLIES
FOR JANUARY 22nd AND JANUARY 23.
AFTER THE INAUGURATION. DONALD
TRUMP HAD OTHER PLANS. ON
DECEMBER 19, PRESIDENT TRUMP
TWEETED HIS SAVE THE DATE FOR
JANUARY 6. HE TOLD HIS
SUPPORTERS TO COME TO DC FOR A
BIG PROTEST THE DAY BILLING IT
AS WILD. JUST DAYS LATER, WOMEN
FOR AMERICA FIRST AMENDED THEIR
PERMIT TO HOLD THE RALLY ON
JANUARY 6 PURSUANT TO THE
PRESENCE SAVE THE DATE INSTEAD
OF AFTER THE INAUGURATION. THIS
WAS DELIBERATE. REPORTS CONFIRM
THAT THE PRESIDENT HIMSELF,
PRESIDENT TRUMP BECAME DIRECTLY
INVOLVED WITH THE PLANNING OF
THE EVENT INCLUDING THE
SPEAKING LINEUP, EVEN THE MUSIC
TO BE PLAYED JUST AS HE CHOSE
THE MUSIC FOR HIS RETWEET OF THE
CARAVAN DRIVING THE BIDEN HARRIS
BUS OFF THE ROAD WITH THAT
FIGHT SONG. HE BROUGHT THE SAME
PEOPLE WHO SPOKE AT THE SECOND
MILLION MAGA RALLY TO HELP AS
WELL.  TRUMPS CAMPAIGN ADVISOR
CATRINA PEARSON WHO YOU RECALL
SET ON DECEMBER 12 THAT THIS IS
ONLY THE BEGINNING. WE ARE
THE CALVARY ALSO BECAME DIRECTLY
INVOLVED IN PLANNING THE EVENT.
THEY EVEN SENT OUT
INVITATIONS TOGETHER. THIS IS
AMY, ONE OF THE FOUNDERS OF
WOMEN FOR AMERICA FIRST TWITTING
THE INVITATION TAGGING DONALD
TRUMP AND OTHER ORGANIZERS
INVITING THE SAME SUPPORTERS WHO
HAD JUST ENGAGED IN SERIOUS
VIOLENCE AT THE SECOND MILLION
MAGA RALLY TO SHOW UP  TO THE
LARGEST RALLY TO STOP
THE STEEL. AND PRESIDENT TRUMP
SEEMS TO HAVE OTHER PLANS FOR
WHAT WAS GOING TO HAPPEN AT THAT
RALLY ALSO. WOMEN FOR AMERICA
FIRST HAD INITIALLY PLANNED FOR
THE RALLY GOERS TO REMAIN AT THE
ELLIPSE UNTIL THE COUNTING OF
THE STATE ELECTORAL SLATES WAS
COMPLETED JUST LIKE THEY HAVE
REMAINED AT FREEDOM PLAZA AFTER
THE SECOND MILLION MAGA
MARCH.  IN FACT, THE PERMIT
STATED IN NO UNCERTAIN TERMS
THAT THE MARCH FROM THE ELLIPSE
WAS
NOT PERMITTED. IT WAS NOT UNTIL
AFTER PRESIDENT TRUMP AND HIS
TEAM BECAME INVOLVED IN THE
PLANNING THAT THE MARCH FROM THE
ELLIPSE TO THE CAPITAL CAME
ABOUT. IN DIRECT CONTRAVENTION
OF THE ORIGINAL PERMIT. THIS WAS
NOT A COINCIDENCE. NONE OF THIS
WAS. DONALD TRUMP OVER MANY
MONTHS
CULTIVATED VIOLENCE, PRAISED IT
AND THEN WHEN HE SAW THE
VIOLENCE HIS SUPPORTERS WERE
CAPABLE OF, HE CHANNELED IT TO
HIS BIG WILD HISTORIC EVENT. HE
ORGANIZED JANUARY 6 WITH THE
SAME PEOPLE THAT HAD JUST
ORGANIZED A RALLY RESULTING IN
SUBSTANTIAL VIOLENCE AND MADE
ABSOLUTELY SURE THIS TIME THESE
VIOLENT A RALLY GOERS WOULDN'T
JUST REMAIN IN PLACE. HE MADE
SURE THAT THOSE VIOLENT PEOPLE
WOULD LITERALLY MARCH RIGHT HERE
TO OUR STEPS FROM THE ELLIPSE TO
THE CAPITAL TO STOP THE STEEL.
HIS CALVARY, THIS
WAS DELIBERATE. AND BECAUSE THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
INCITED THIS, BECAUSE HE WAS
ORCHESTRATING THIS, BECAUSE HE
WAS INVITING THEM, THE
INSURGENTS WERE NOT SHY ABOUT
THEIR PLANNING. THEY BELIEVE
THEY WERE FOLLOWING THE ORDERS
OF THE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF. THEY
WERE AS THE TWEET WE JUST SAW
QUITE LITERALLY HIS CALVARY. SO
THEY POSTED EXACT BLUEPRINTS OF
THE ATTACK OPENLY,
LOUDLY, PROUDLY. THEY DID THIS
ALL OVER PUBLIC FORUMS. THESE
WERE NOT JUST HIDDEN POSTS AND
DARK WEBSITES THAT TRUMP WOULD
NOT HAVE SEEN, QUITE THE
OPPOSITE. WE KNOW THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMPS TEAM MONITORED THESE
WEBSITES. WE KNOW THIS BECAUSE
HIS ADVISORS
CONFIRM IT AND ASK WHITE HOUSE
AND CAN PINE INSIDERS YOU
WILL READ WHO HAVE KNOWN BOTH
GAVINO AND THE PRESIDENT FOUR
YEARS SAID THERE WAS NO WAY
THAT'S GAVINO AND THE TRUMP
SOCIAL MEDIA OPERATION WOULD NOT
HAVE BEEN AWARE OF THE PLAN
CIRCULATING ONLINE TO STORM THE
CAPITAL. BECAUSE AND I QUOTE THE
TRUMP OPERATION CLOSELY
MONITORED THE WEB'S
DARKEST CORNERS RANGING FROM
MAINSTREAM SITES SUCH AS
TWITTER, FACEBOOK AND REDDIT TO
FRINGE MESSAGE BOARDS LIKE
FORTUNE
AND -- TO THE DONALD.WHEN, AN
OFFSHOOT
OF A BAND REDDIT COMMUNITY
DEDICATED TO RAPIDLY SUPPORTING
ALL THINGS TRUMP. THEY ACTIVELY
MONITORED THE EXACT SITES LIKE
THE DONALD.WHEN ON WHICH THESE
INSURRECTIONIST THROAT TO THEIR
POSTS. SO WHAT WOULD TRUMP AND
HIS TEAM
HAVE SEEN WHEN THEY WERE
MONITORING THESE SITES? WHAT
WOULD HIS SUPPORTERS HAVE SAID?
THEY WOULD HAVE SEEN A CLEAR
ROADMAP OF EXACTLY
WHAT HAPPENED. THIS IS AN
EXAMPLE OF A POST THAT WAS
CAPTURED FROM ONE OF THE SITES
DEDICATED TO DONALD TRUMP THAT
WE JUST TALKED ABOUT. SHORTLY
BEFORE THE SITE WAS TAKEN DOWN.
THE MEME READS QUOTE THE CAPITAL
IS OUR GOAL. EVERYTHING ELSE IS
A DISTRACTION. EVERY CORRUPT
MEMBER OF CONGRESS LOCKED IN ONE
ROOM AND SURROUNDED BY REAL
AMERICANS IS AN OPPORTUNITY THAT
WILL NEVER PRESENT ITSELF AGAIN.
LET THAT SINK IN. THINK
ABOUT THAT. THE EXACT THING THAT
HAPPENED ON JANUARY 6, THAT WAS
THEIR GOAL. AND THEY SAID IT OUT
LOUD ON SITES THAT THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION WAS
ACTIVELY MONITORING. A
THIRD-PARTY SITE SHOULD A POST
ON THE DONALD.WIN WHERE ONE USER
POSTED QUOTE  THIS CANNOT SIMPLY
BE A PROTEST. IT HAS TO BE THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MAGA
MILITIA WITH THE COMMAND OFFICES
SET UP  WITH ALL FURTHER MILITIA
TACTICAL MISSIONS SPREADING FROM
THERE. ANOTHER USER SAID IN
RESPONSE QUOTE WE WILL HAVE TO
ACHIEVE AN ACTUAL TACTICAL
VICTORY LIKE STORMING AND
OCCUPYING THE CAPITAL. TO HAVE
THE INTENDED EFFECT. THAT IS
WHAT THEY UNDERSTOOD DONALD
TRUMP TO WANT. THERE IT IS IN
BLACK AND WHITE. THEY EXPLAINED
WHY THEY FELT JUSTIFIED IN THIS.
ANOTHER POSTER ON THE
FORM THAT DONALD.WIN WROTE ON
JANUARY 4 QUOTE IF CONGRESS
ILLEGALLY CERTIFIES BY THE
NEED  -- BIDEN, TRUMP WOULD HAVE
NO CHOICE BUT TO DEMAND US TO
STORM CONGRESS AND KILLED/BE TO
THEM UP HERE.
DONALD TRUMP WILL HAVE NO
CHOICE. THAT IS WHAT HE MADE
THEM BELIEVE TO THE POINT HIS
SUPPORTERS FELT JUSTIFIED EVEN
AND CARRYING WEAPONS AND
STORMING OUR CAPITAL. THIS WAS
IN POST AFTER POST. HERE IS
ANOTHER. WHEN DISCUSSING HOW TO
CARRY GUNS INTO DC, ONE NOTED
QUOTE YES IT IS A LEGAL BUT THIS
IS WAR AND WE ARE CLEARLY IN A
POST LEGAL PHASE OF OUR SOCIETY.
WHAT? THEY TREATED IT AS A WAR
AND THEY MEANT IT. THE MORNING
OF THE ATTACK UNDER THE THREAD
TODAY I TOLD MY
KIDS GOODBYE, ONE POSTER WROTE
TODAY I HAD A VERY DIFFICULT
CONVERSATION WITH MY CHILDREN
THAT DADDY MIGHT NOT COME HOME
FROM DC. WITHIN A MATTER OF
HOURS, THAT POST AMASSED
4000 LIKES. PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD
TRULY MADE THEM BELIEVE THAT
THEIR ELECTION HAD BEEN STOLEN
AND THAT IT WAS THEIR PATRIOTIC
DUTY TO FIGHT TO STEAL IT BACK.
PATRIOTIC, A TERM HE GAVE THOSE
WHO USE VIOLENCE FOR HIM AND
THEY WERE WILLING TO SAY GOODBYE
TO THEIR CHILDREN FOR
THIS FIGHT. THERE SUPPORTERS
DIDN'T JUST RELY ON ENTERING THE
CAPITAL WITH GUNS HAPHAZARDLY.
THEY HAD MAPS OF THIS BUILDING.
THEY TALKED THROUGH WHICH
TUNNELS TO USE AND HOW TO GET TO
THE SENATE CHAMBER.
THERE WERE SPECIFIC FLOOR PLANS
AND LAYOUTS OF THE CAPITAL
ALONGSIDE HOPES OF OVERWHELMING
LAW ENFORCEMENT TO QUOTE FIND
THE TUNNELS, ARREST THE
WORST TRADERS. POSTERS ALSO
FIXATED ON WHAT THEY SAW AS
THEIR ABILITY TO EASILY
OVERWHELM THE CAPITAL POLICE AS
QUOTE THERE ARE ONLY AROUND 2000
OF THEM AND AGAIN THEY URGE
QUOTE THE CAPITAL IS OUR GOAL.
EVERYTHING ELSE IS A
DISTRACTION. THERE WERE HUNDREDS
OF
THESE POSTS, HUNDREDS, MONITORED
BY THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION.
THESE POSTS WERE CHILLINGLY
ACCURATE RIGHT DOWN TO
COMMUNICATION DEVICES. A NEW
AFFIDAVIT FILED BY THE FBI
DESCRIBED PREPARATIONS BY THE
WHITE RING -- WING GROUP THE
PROUD VOICE TO STORM THE CAPITAL
INCLUDING USING WALKIE-TALKIES
AND EARPIECES TO DIRECT
MOVEMENTS THROUGHOUT THE
BUILDING. THIS HAPPENED. THAT IS
THE LEVEL OF PLANNING AND EVENTS
THAT OCCURRED. THEY
HAD EARPIECES. YOU WILL SEE
PROUD BOY MEMBER DOMINIC HAS AN
EARPIECE IN HIS RIGHT EAR
CONSISTENT WITH
THE AFFIDAVIT. IN ADDITION TO
THESE DETAILED POSTS, THEY MADE
CLEAR WHY THEY THOUGHT THEY
SHOULD DO THIS. WHY THEY THOUGHT
THEY COULD DO THIS. IT WASN'T
JUST THEY WERE DOING IT
FOLLOWING THE PRESIDENT'S
ORDERS, THEY THOUGHT HE WOULD
HELP THEM. A THIRD-PARTY SITE
CAPTURED A POST ON THE
DONALD.WIN AGAIN. THE SITE
MONITORED BY TRUMPS TEAM  AND HE
WROTE QUOTE HE MEANING DONALD
TRUMP IN THIS INSTANCE CAN ORDER
THE GUARD TO STAND DOWN IF
NEEDED. UNFORTUNATELY, HE HAS NO
CONTROL OVER THE CAPITAL POLICE
BUT THERE ARE ONLY AROUND 2000
OF THEM AND ARE USELESS FINANCES
OR GIRLS. IT IS ALL RIGHT THERE.
THE OVERALL GOAL, MAPS OF THE
CAPITAL, THE WEAPONS,
COMMUNICATION DEVICES, THEY EVEN
SAID PUBLICLY OPENLY, PROUDLY
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP WILL HELP
THEM TO COMEDY OR THE NATIONAL
GUARD SO ALL THEY HAVE TO DO
IS OVERWHELM THE 2000 CAPITAL
POLICE OFFICERS. THIS WAS
REPORTED IN THE NBC NEWS AND THE
WASHINGTON POST WITH HEADLINES
LIKE VIOLENT THREATS RIPPLED
THROUGH FAR RIGHT INTERNET FORMS
AHEAD OF PROTESTS, PRO-TRUMP
FORMS ERUPT WITH VIOLENT THREATS
AHEAD OF
WEDNESDAY'S RALLY AGAINST THE
2020 ELECTION. FOX NEWS ALSO
REPORTED THAT THE PROUD BOYS
WOULD COME TO THE JANUARY 6 THE
RALLY PREPARED FOR VIOLENT
ACTION EVEN QUOTING A PROUD BOY
MEMBER WHO SAID THEY WOULD QUOTE
END -- INCOGNITO SPREAD AROUND
DOWNTOWN DC IN
SMALLER NUMBERS. CITY OFFICIALS
SEEN THESE SAME WARNINGS ALSO
PUBLICLY WARNED ABOUT THE
VIOLENCE AND UNLAWFUL WEAPONS AT
THE EVENT. DC MAYOR CAUTIONED
RESIDENTS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA TO AVOID THE DOWNTOWN
AREA WHILE THE RALLY ATTENDEES
WERE
IN TOWN. FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT
WARNED OF THESE THREATS ALSO. ON
JANUARY 3, A CAPITAL POLICE
INTELLIGENCE REPORT WARNED OF A
VIOLENT SCENARIO IN WHICH
CONGRESS ITSELF COULD BE
THE TARGET OF THE ANGRY
SUPPORTERS OF PRESIDENT TRUMP ON
JANUARY 6. ACCORDING TO
THAT REPORT OBTAINED BY THE
WASHINGTON POST, SUPPORTERS OF
THE CURRENT PRESIDENT SEE
JANUARY 6, 2021 AS THE LAST
OPPORTUNITY TO OVERTURN THE
RESULTS OF THE
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION. THIS
SENSE OF DESPERATION AND
DISAPPOINTMENT MAY LEAD TO MORE
INCENTIVES TO BECOME VIOLENT.
UNLIKE
PREVIOUS POSTS ELECTION
PROTESTS, THE TARGETS OF THE
PRO-TRUMP SUPPORTERS ARE NOT
NECESSARILY THE COUNTER
PROTESTERS AS THEY WERE
PREVIOUSLY BUT RATHER CONGRESS
ITSELF IS THE TARGET FOR JANUARY
6. THE DAY BEFORE THE WRITERS
STORMED TO THE CONGRESS AN FBI
OFFICE IN VIRGINIA ALSO ISSUED
AN EXPLICIT WARNING THAT
EXTREMISTS WERE PREPARING TO
TRAVEL TO WASHINGTON TO COMMIT
VIOLENCE AND
QUOTE WAR. ACCORDING TO INTERNAL
REPORTS. THE FBI REPORTS DECIDED
TO AN ONLINE POST OR THE USER
DECLARED THAT TRUMP SUPPORTERS
SHOULD GO TO WASHINGTON AND GET
VIOLENT. THE SUPPORTERS
SAID QUOTE STOP CALLING THIS A
MARCH OR A RALLY OR A PROTEST.
GO THERE READY FOR WAR. WE GET
OUR PRESIDENT OR WE DIE. THESE
THREAT WARNINGS WERE NOT JUST
HYPOTHETICAL. ACTUAL ARREST
OCCURRED IN THE DAYS LEADING TO
THE ATTACK ON JANUARY 4 TWO DAYS
BEFORE THE RALLY, ONE EXTREMELY
WELL-PUBLICIZED ARREST WAS OF A
PROBABLY LEADER WHO DESTROYED A
CHURCHES BLACK
LIVES MATTER BANNER A MONTH
EARLIER DURING THE DECEMBER 12
SECOND MILLION MAGA MARCH.
REPORT EMPHASIZED WHEN HE WAS
ARRESTED, HE WAS CARRYING
HIGH-CAPACITY FIREARM MAGAZINES
WHICH SHE CLAIMED WERE MEANT TO
BE SUPPLIED TO ANOTHER RALLY
ATTENDEE FORD
JANUARY 6.
BY THE NIGHT OF JANUARY 6
ATTACK, DC POLICE HAD ALREADY
MADE SIX ARRESTS IN CONNECTION
WITH THE PLANNED PROTEST ON
CHARGES OF CARRYING WEAPONS,
AMMUNITIONS, ASSAULT,
ASSAULTING POLICE. THIS IS ALL
IN PUBLIC VIEW. ALL OF IT. THE
TRUTH IS USUALLY SEEN AND RARELY
HEARD. TRUTH IS TRUTH WHETHER
DENIED OR NOT. THE TRUTH IS
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD SPENT MONTHS
CALLING HIS SUPPORTERS TO A
MARCH ON A SPECIFIC DAY AT A
SPECIFIC TIME IN SPECIFIC PLACES
TO STOP THE CERTIFICATION. AND
LEADING UP TO THE EVENT, THERE
WERE
HUNDREDS OF HOSTS ONLINE SHOWING
THAT HIS SUPPORTERS TOOK THIS AS
A CALL TO ARMS TO ATTACK THE
CAPITAL. THERE WERE DETAILED
POSTS OF PLANS TO ATTACK ONLINE.
LAW ENFORCEMENT WARNED THAT
THESE POSTS WERE REAL THREATS
AND EVEN MADE ARRESTS DAYS
LEADING UP TO THE ATTACK. AND
YET, IN THE FACE OF ALL OF THIS,
THESE CREDIBLE WARNINGS OF
SERIOUS DANGEROUS THREATS TO OUR
CAPITAL WHEN THOSE THOUSANDS OF
PEOPLE WERE STANDING IN FRONT OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP READY TO TAKE
ORDERS AND ATTACK, THIS IS WHAT
HE SAID. WE ARE GOING TO THE
CAPITAL AND WE FIGHT. WE FIGHT
LIKE ,  AND IF YOU DON'T FIGHT
LIKE , YOU ARE NOT GOING TO HAVE
A COUNTRY ANYMORE. THAT IS WHY
THIS IS DIFFERENT. THAT IS WHY
HE MUST BE CONVICTED
AND DISQUALIFIED.
&gt;&gt; REPRESENTATIVE DEAN WILL NOW
RETURN TO THE EVENTS OF JANUARY
6. SHALL DEMONSTRATE PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S REPEATED INCITEMENT OF
THE CROWD THAT MORNING AS HE
DIRECTED THEM TO THE CAPITAL AND
HIS LAST DITCH EFFORT TO RETAIN
HIS HOLD
ON POWER.
&gt;&gt; FOR ME AND FOR MANY
AMERICANS, JANUARY 6 IS FOREVER
ETCHED IN
OUR MEMORIES. I WENT TO WORK
WITH A SENSE OF EXCITEMENT. THE
START OF MY SECOND TERM AND
CONGRESS AND THE FIRST TIME I
WOULD PARTICIPATE IN THE
CERTIFICATION OF A PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION. THEN WE ALL KNOW WHAT
HAPPENED. I KNOW MANY OF US HAVE
SIMILAR EXPERIENCES FROM THAT
DAY BUT I WILL BRIEFLY SHARE
MINE. I STOOD WITH COLLEAGUES IN
THE GALLERY ABOVE THE HOUSE
FLOOR TO OBSERVE THE
ARIZONA CHALLENGE. MOMENTS
LATER, POLICE RADIOS REPORTED A
BREACH OF THE CAPITAL GROUNDS.
SOMEONE SHOUTED UP TO US DUCK
AND THEN LIE DOWN AND THEN READY
YOUR GAS MASKS.
SHORTLY AFTER THERE WAS A
TERRIFYING BANGING ON THE
CHAMBER DOORS. I WILL NEVER
FORGET
THAT SOUND. SHOUTS AND PANICKED
CALLS TO MY HUSBAND AND TO MY
SONS, INSTRUCTIONS TO FLEE AND
THEN THE CONSTANT WORRYING OF
THE GAS MASKS FILTERING
THE AIR. THE CHAMBER OF THE
STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
TURNED TO CHAOS. FOR DONALD
TRUMP, IT WAS A VERY DIFFERENT
DAY. EARLIER I SHOWED YOU DONALD
TRUMPS DESPERATE ATTEMPTS TO
MAINTAIN POWER IGNORING ADVERSE
COURT RULINGS ATTACKING ELECTED
OFFICIALS, PRESSURING HIS
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT EVEN
ATTACKING HIS OWN VICE
PRESIDENT. YOU SAW A MAN WHO
REFUSED TO LOSE, WHO WAS
DESPERATE TO RETAIN POWER BY ANY
MEANS NECESSARY. YOU SAW A MAN
WILLING TO ATTACK ANYONE AND
EVERYONE WHO GOT IN HIS WAY. YOU
SAW A MAN WHO THOUGHT HE COULD
PLAY BY DIFFERENT RULES. HE TOLD
HIS SUPPORTERS AS MY COLLEAGUE
JUST SHOWED YOU EXACTLY WHAT HE
THOUGHT THOSE DIFFERENT
RULES WERE. COMBAT,
FIGHT, VIOLENCE. THIS WAS NOT
JUST ONE SPEECH. THIS WAS WEEKS
AND WEEKS OF DELIBERATE EFFORT
BY DONALD TRUMP TO OVERTURN THE
ELECTION RESULTS SO THAT HE
DIDN'T HAVE TO GIVE UP
THE PRESIDENCY. THE SPEECH ON
JANUARY 6 THE BUILDS ON, REFERS
TO AND AMPLIFIES THAT SAME
PATTERN, THE PATTERN TRUMP HAD
USED AND BROADCASTED FOUR
MONTHS. HE REFUSED
TO LOSE HIS ATTACKS ON OTHERS
AND IS DIFFERENT RULES. THE ONLY
THING DIFFERENT ABOUT HIS SPEECH
ON JANUARY 6 FROM ALL THESE
OTHER TIMES THAT WE
WENT THROUGH WAS THAT HE WAS NO
LONGER TELLING HIS BASE THAT
THEY HAD TO FIGHT TO STOP THE
STEEL. HE WAS FINALLY TELLING
THEM NOW IS THE TIME TO
DO IT. HERE IS THE PLACE AND
HERE IS HOW. FOUR WEEKS, HE
URGED HIS SUPPORTERS TO SHOW UP
AT A SPECIFIC TIME AND PLACE AND
WHEN THEY GOT THERE, HE TOLD
THEM EXACTLY WHAT HE WANTED.
LET'S START WITH HIS
DESPERATION. YOU SAW HOW MUCH
PLANNING WENT INTO JANUARY 6 AND
WHEN THE DAY ARRIVED, DONALD
TRUMPS DESPERATION WAS IN FULL
FORCE. BETWEEN THE TIME HE WOKE
UP ON JANUARY 5 AND THE START OF
THE SAVE AMERICA MARCH, THAT
NEXT DAY, HE HAD TWEETED
34 TIMES. ONE DONALD TRUMP WANTS
TO GET HIS MESSAGE ACROSS, HE IS
NOT SHY AS YOU ALL KNOW. THESE
TWEETS WERE RELENTLESS AND THESE
TWEETS ALL CENTERED ON HIS
SINGULAR FOCUS, HIS DRUMBEATS TO
MOTIVATE, ANGER AND INSIGHT HIS
SUPPORTERS, HIS
BIG LIE. THE PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION HAD BEEN RIGGED. IT HAD
BEEN STOLEN FROM HIM AND THEY
HAD TO FIGHT TO STOP IT. AND THE
TIMING WAS NO COINCIDENCE. HE
SENT 34 TWEETS BECAUSE THIS WAS
HIS LAST CHANCE TO RILE UP HIS
SUPPORTERS BEFORE THE BIG
HISTORIC WILD EVENT HE
HAD PLANNED. NOW I WON'T GO
THROUGH ALL OF THESE TWEETS BUT
LET ME JUST HIGHLIGHT
IF YOU. AT 1 AM, HE TWEETED IF
VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE COMES
THROUGH FOR US, WE WILL WIN THE
PRESIDENCY. MIKE CAN SEND IT
BACK. THIS WILL LOOK FAMILIAR TO
YOU BECAUSE MR. LOU JUST SHOWED
YOU HOW TRUMP HAD PRIVATELY HE
WAS PRESSURING AND PUBLICLY
ATTACKING HIS VICE PRESIDENT TO
STOP THE CERTIFICATION. WHEN
VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE REFUSED, WHEN HE EXPLAINED
TO THE CONSTITUTION SIMPLY DOES
NOT ALLOW HIM TO STOP
CERTIFICATION, DONALD TRUMP
PROVOKED HIS BASE TO
ATTACK HIM. THE LATE AND THE
EVENING TWEET WAS NO DIFFERENT.
IT JUST GOT MORE FORCEFUL. LET'S
BE CLEAR WHAT DONALD TRUMP WAS
SAYING THAT VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
COULD SEND BACK THE
CERTIFICATION WAS NOT TRUE. FOR
ONE THING ALL 50 STATES HAD
RATIFIED THIS ELECTION AND FOR
ANOTHER, VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE EXPLAINED TO HIM
THAT HE DOES NOT HAVE THE POWER
TO UNILATERALLY OVERTURN STATES
VOTES AND JUST SEND THE
CERTIFICATION BACK. DONALD TRUMP
KNEW THIS BUT THIS WAS HIS
LAST CHANCE. TO GET HIS VICE
PRESIDENT TO STOP CERTIFICATION
AND SO HE WAS WILLING TO SAY OR
DO JUST ABOUT ANYTHING. HIS
TWEETS ATTACKING THE ELECTION AS
FRAUDULENT ATTACKING HIS VICE
PRESIDENT AND URGING HIS
SUPPORTERS TO FIGHT CONTINUED
THROUGHOUT THE MORNING. HERE IS
ANOTHER EXAMPLE. AT 8:17 AM,
TWEETED ALL MIKE PENCE HAS TO DO
IS SEND IT BACK TO THEM, BACK TO
THE STATES, AND
WE WIN. THAT IS WHAT HE SAID.
EVEN THOUGH BY THEN, HE HAD
CLEARLY LOST. AS TRUMP CONTINUED
TWEETING THE SAVE AMERICA MARCH
AT THE WHITE HOUSE WAS NOW IN
FULL SWING. THE SPEAKERS WHO
WARMED UP THE CROWD FOR TRUMP
WERE MEMBERS OF HIS INNER
CIRCLE. FAMILY MEMBERS, HIS
PERSONAL ATTORNEY, PEOPLE
PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAD DEPUTIZED TO SPEAK ON
HIS BEHALF. SOME OF THE SPEAKERS
ALSO SPOKE AT THE SECOND MILLION
MAGA MARCH WHICH RESULTED IN
SERIOUS VIOLENCE.
THE WARM-UP ACTS ON JANUARY 6
FOCUSED ON PROMOTING DONALD
TRUMPS BIG LIE. THEY STOKED THE
SAME FEARS, A STOLEN ELECTION OF
FRAUD, OF RIPPING VICTORY AWAY
FROM THEM AND THE SPEAKERS TOLD
THEM WHAT TO DO ABOUT IT. AS THE
CROWD ERUPTED AND FIGHT FOR
TRUMP, CHANCE THROUGHOUT THAT
MORNING, DONALD TRUMP JUNIOR
URGED THAT IS THE MESSAGE. THESE
GUYS BETTER FIGHT
FOR TRUMP. THE SPEAKERS LASTED
THREE HOURS REPEATING PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S MESSAGE AND FINALLY AT
ABOUT NOON, DONALD TRUMP TOOK
THE STAGE WITH THE SEAL OF THE
PRESIDENCY ON HIS PODIUM AND THE
WHITE HOUSE AS
HIS BACKDROP.
PRESIDENT TRUMP SPOKE FOR MORE
THAN 70 MINUTES. HIS NARRATIVE
WAS FAMILIAR. IT WAS THE SAME
MESSAGE HE HAD SPENT MONTHS
SPREADING TO HIS SUPPORTERS. THE
BIG LIE, THE ELECTION WAS
STOLEN, THEY SHOULD
NEVER CONCEDE AND THAT HIS
SUPPORTERS SHOULD BE PATRIOTS
AND FIGHT MUCH HARDER TO STOP
THE STEEL, TO TAKE BACK OUR
COUNTRY. THE SAME PHRASES HE HAD
SPREAD FOUR WEEKS BUT NOW THE
MESSAGE
WAS IMMEDIATE. NOW IT WAS JUST
NO LONGER JUST FIGHT, IT WAS
FIGHT RIGHT NOW.
&gt;&gt; ALL OF US HERE TODAY DO NOT
WANT TO SEE OUR ELECTION VICTORY
STOLEN BY EMBOLDEN RADICAL LEFT
DEMOCRATS WHICH IS WHAT THEY ARE
DOING AND STOLEN BY THE FAKE
NEWS MEDIA. THAT IS WHAT THEY
HAVE DONE AND WHAT THEY ARE
DOING. WILL NEVER GIVE UP AND WE
WILL NEVER CONCEDE. YOU DON'T
CONCEDE WHERE THERE IS THEFT
INVOLVED. OUR COUNTRY HAS
HAD ENOUGH. WE WILL NOT TAKE IT
ANYMORE AND THAT IS WHAT THIS IS
ALL ABOUT. AND TO USE A FAVORITE
TERM THAT ALL OF YOU PEOPLE
REALLY CAME UP WITH, WE WILL
STOP
THE STEEL.
&gt;&gt; THAT SET THE TONE. OUR
COUNTRY HAS HAD ENOUGH AND WE
WILL NOT TAKE IT ANYMORE. HE
TOLD THEM AND US RIGHT AT THE
BEGINNING THAT THE ONLY WAY TO
TAKE BACK THE COUNTRY WAS TO
FIGHT. LET'S LOOK AT WHAT HE
SAID NEXT.
&gt;&gt; RUDY, YOU DID A GREAT JOB. HE
HAS
GOT GUTS. A LOT OF PEOPLE IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY, HE HAS GUTS,
HE FIGHTS.
&gt;&gt; MS. PLASKETT SHOWED YOU
EXAMPLE AFTER EXAMPLE OF DONALD
TRUMP WHEN CONFRONTED WITH
VIOLENCE, PRAISING IT. WE SAW
HIM INSTRUCT THE PROUD BOYS A
VIOLENT EXTREMIST GROUP TO STAND
BACK AND STANDBY. THAT GROUP WAS
THERE ON JANUARY 6. WE SAW HIM
PRAISE A CARAVAN OF HIS
SUPPORTERS AFTER THEY TRIED TO
DRIVE A BUS BELONGING TO THE
BIDEN CAMPAIGN OFF THE ROAD. THE
ORGANIZER OF THAT ATTACK WAS
THERE ON JANUARY 6. WE SAW HIM
TEAM UP WITH THE ORGANIZERS OF
THE VIOLENT SECOND MAGA MILLION
MARCH  TO PLAN HIS RALLY ON
JANUARY 6. WHAT DOES HE DO AT
THAT RALLY? HE TELLS GIULIANI
HE'S DOING A GREAT JOB AT
ADDRESSING THE CROWD SAYING HE
HAS GUTS TO CALL FOR FIGHTING
AND TO BE CLEAR, THIS IS WHAT HE
WAS PRAISING.
&gt;&gt; SO LET'S HAVE A TRIAL
BY COMBAT.
&gt;&gt; TRIAL BY COMBAT. DONALD TRUMP
PRAISED RUDY, SAID HE DID A GOOD
JOB, HAD GUTS FORETELLING THE
CROWD THAT WE NEED TRIAL BY
COMBAT. NEXT
MORE ATTACKS.
&gt;&gt; ALL VICE PRESIDENT PENTZ HAS
TO DO IS SEND IT BACK TO THE
STATES TO RECERTIFY AND WE
BECOME PRESIDENT AND YOU ARE THE
HAPPIEST PEOPLE.
&gt;&gt; THIS ATTACK LIKE THE TWEETY
CENTER THAT MORNING HAD
A PURPOSE CONVINCING HIS
SUPPORTERS THAT THE FUTURE OF
OUR COUNTRY OF OUR DEMOCRACY
HINGED ON WHETHER VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE WOULD OVERTURN THE
ELECTION. SOMETHING HE KNEW
PENTZ COULD NOT AND WOULD NOT
DO. HE CALLED OUT VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE NINE TIMES THAT DAY AND
EACH TIME, HE GOT MORE FORCEFUL.
HERE'S WHAT HE SAID AT 12:15.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE GOING TO HAVE TO FIGHT
MUCH HARDER AND MIKE PENCE IS
GOING TO HAVE TO COME THROUGH
FOR US AND IF HE DOESN'T, THAT
WILL BE A SAD DAY FOR OUR
COUNTRY THE SAYS YOU ARE SWORN
TO UPHOLD
OUR CONSTITUTION. NOW IT IS UP
TO CONGRESS TO CONFRONT THIS
EGREGIOUS ASSAULT ON
OUR DEMOCRACY AND AFTER THIS, WE
ARE GOING TO WALK DOWN AND I
WILL BE THERE WITH YOU. WE ARE
GOING TO
WALK DOWN ANYONE YOU WANT BUT I
THINK RIGHT HERE WE ARE GOING TO
WALK DOWN TO THE CAPITAL AND WE
ARE GOING TO CHEER ON OUR BRAVE
SENATORS AND CONGRESSMEN
AND WOMEN, AND WE ARE PROBABLY
NOT GOING TO BE CHEERING SO MUCH
FOR SOME
OF THEM. YOU WILL NEVER TAKE
BACK OUR COUNTRY WITH WE CAN US.
YOU HAVE TO SHOW STRENGTH AND
YOU HAVE TO
BE STRONG.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE GOING TO HAVE TO FIGHT
MUCH HARDER AND MIKE PENCE WILL
HAVE TO COME THROUGH FOR US.
THAT IS WHAT HE SAID AND HE TOLD
THE CROWD WHAT HE MEANT AND
EXACTLY WHAT TO DO LITERALLY
COMMANDING THEM TO CONFRONT US
AT THE CAPITAL. HE EVEN TOLD
THEM HE'D WALK THERE WITH THEM
WHICH OF COURSE WAS NOT TRUE.
THEN HE TOLD THEM EXACTLY WHAT
TO DO WHEN THEY GOT TO THE
CAPITAL. YOU WILL NEVER TAKE
YOUR COUNTRY BACK
WITH WEAKNESS. YOU HAVE TO SHOW
STRENGTH AND DON'T FORGET WHO
WAS STANDING THERE, THE SAME
PEOPLE MS. PLASKETT DESCRIBED TO
YOU. MANY PEOPLE VIOLENCE,
VIOLENCE PEOPLE, LAW ENFORCEMENT
HAD WARNED THEY WOULD BE ARMED
AND WOULD BE TARGETING US. ONE
OF PRESIDENT TRUMPS KEY DEFENSES
FOCUSED ON WHAT HE SAID FOR A
FEW SECONDS, 15 MINUTES INTO
THE SPEECH.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW THAT EVERYONE HERE
WILL SOON BE MARCHING OVER TO
THE CAPITAL BUILDING TO
PEACEFULLY AND PATRIOTICALLY
MAKE YOUR
VOICES HEARD.
&gt;&gt; ANY SPEECH SPANNING ALMOST
11,000 WORDS, YES WE DID CHECK,
THAT WAS THE ONE TIME, THE ONLY
TIME THE PRESIDENT TRUMP USED
THE WORD PEACEFUL OR ANY
SUGGESTION
OF NONVIOLENCE. THE IMPLICATION
OF THE PRESIDENT'S TWEETS, THE
RALLY AND THE SPEECHES WERE
CLEAR, PRESIDENT TRUMP USED THE
WORD FIGHT OR FIGHTING 20 TIMES
INCLUDING TELLING THE CROWD THEY
NEEDED TO FIGHT LIKE  TO SAVE
OUR DEMOCRACY. WE KNOW HOW THE
CROWD RESPONDED TO DONALD TRUMPS
WORDS AND HE KNEW HOW THEY
RESPONDED TO HIS SPEECH. HERE IS
THE EVIDENCE AT HOW THE
CROWD REACTED.
&gt;&gt; TAKE THE CAPITAL. TAKE THE P
&gt;&gt; -- THE CAPITAL RIGHT
&gt;&gt; YEAH!
&gt;&gt; STORM THE CAPITAL, INVADE THE
CAPITAL, FIGHT, FIGHT, FIGHT,
FIGHT. TAKE THE CAPITAL RIGHT
NOW. THESE WERE THE WORDS OF
THE CROWD. TRUMP WAS TELLING
THEM TO FIGHT AND HE WOULD KEEP
TELLING THEM TO FIGHT THROUGHOUT
THE REST OF HIS SPEECH. THESE
ARE NOT ONLY WORDS OF
AGGRESSION, THEY ARE WORDS OF
INSURRECTION AND IF YOU HAVE ANY
DOUBT, LISTEN TO WHAT HE SAYS
NEXT.
&gt;&gt; TODAY
WE SEE A VERY IMPORTANT EVENT
BECAUSE RIGHT OVER THERE, RIGHT
THERE, WE SEE THE EVENT GOING TO
TAKE PLACE AND I'M GOING TO BE
WATCHING BECAUSE HISTORY IS
GOING TO BE MADE. WE'RE GOING TO
SEE WHETHER OR NOT WE HAVE A
GREAT AND COURAGEOUS LEADERS OR
WHETHER OR NOT WE HAVE LEADERS
THAT SHOULD BE ASHAMED
OF THEMSELVES THROUGHOUT
HISTORY, THROUGHOUT ETERNITY,
THEY WILL BE ASHAMED AND YOU
KNOW WHAT, IF THEY DO THE WRONG
THING, WE SHOULD NEVER EVER
FORGET THAT THEY DID. WE SHOULD
NEVER
EVER FORGET.
&gt;&gt; THE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF POINTS
TO CONGRESS AND TELLS THOSE
ASSEMBLED I'M GOING TO BE
WATCHING. HISTORY IS GOING TO
BE MADE. THIS WAS CLEARLY NOT
JUST SOME RALLY OR MARCH OR
PROTEST. THIS WAS ABOUT DONALD
TRUMP TRYING TO STEAL THE
ELECTION FOR HIMSELF CLAIMING
THAT THE ELECTION WAS
FRAUDULENT, ILLEGITIMATE SO THAT
HIS SUPPORTERS WOULD FIGHT TO
TAKE IT BACK. IN FACT AFTER
STOKING THE CROWDS ANGER FOR
NEARLY 40 MINUTES AFTER
REPEATING FALSE ELECTION
CONSPIRACY AFTER FALSE ELECTION
CONSPIRACY, HE SAID THIS IN NO
UNCERTAIN TERMS.
&gt;&gt; YOU WILL HAVE AN ILLEGITIMATE
PRESENT. THAT IS WHAT YOU WILL
HAVE.
&gt;&gt; ANY OUTCOME BESIDES HIM
KEEPING THE PRESIDENCY WOULD
BE ILLEGITIMATE. THIS WAS
BUILDING ON THE BIG LIE OF A
RIGGED AND STOLEN ELECTION. HERE
IS WHAT HE SAID A LITTLE LATER
IN
THE SPEECH.
&gt;&gt; WHEN YOU CATCH SOMEBODY AND A
FRAUD, YOU ARE ALLOWED TO GO BY
VERY
DIFFERENT RULES. SO I HOPE MIKE
HAS THE COURAGE TO DO WHAT HE
HAS TO DO.
&gt;&gt; WHEN YOU CATCH SOMEBODY IN A
FRAUD, YOU ARE ALLOWED TO GO BY
VERY DIFFERENT RULES. WE TOLD
YOU THAT CONTEXT MATTERS. HERE
IS THE CONTEXT. THIS WAS NOT
JUST
ONE REFERENCE OR A MESSAGE TO
SUPPORTERS BY A POLITICIAN TO
FIGHT FOR A CAUSE, HE DISSEMBLED
THOUSANDS OF VIOLENT PEOPLE,
PEOPLE HE KNEW WERE CAPABLE OF
VIOLENCE, PEOPLE HE HAD SEEN IT
BE VIOLENT. THEY WERE STANDING
NOW IN FRONT OF HIM, AND THEN HE
POINTED TO US, LIT THE FUSE AND
SENT AN ANGRY MOB TO FIGHT THE
PERCEIVED ENEMY, HIS OWN VICE
PRESIDENTS AND THE MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS. AS WE CERTIFIED
AN ELECTION.
&gt;&gt; I SAID SOMETHING IS WRONG
HERE. SOMETHING IS REALLY WRONG.
IT CANNOT HAVE HAPPENED AND WE
FIGHTS. WE FIGHT LIKE AND IF YOU
DON'T FIGHT LIKE ,  YOU ARE NOT
GOING TO HAVE A COUNTRY ANYMORE.
OUR EXCITING ADVENTURES AND
BOLDEST ENDEAVORS HAVE NOT YET
BEGUN. MY FELLOW AMERICANS, FOR
OUR CHILDREN AND FOR OUR BELOVED
COUNTRY AND I SAY THIS DESPITE
ALL THAT HAS HAPPENED, THE BEST
IS YET
TO COME. SO WE ARE GOING TO WALK
DOWN
PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, AND WE ARE
GOING TO THE CAPITAL AND WE ARE
GOING TO TRY
AND GIVE, THE DEMOCRATS ARE
HOPELESS, THEY ARE NEVER VOTING
FOR ANYTHING, NOT EVEN ONE VOTE,
BUT WE ARE GOING TO TRY TO GIVE
OUR REPUBLICANS, THE WEEK ONCE
BECAUSE THE STRONG ONES DON'T
NEED ANY OF OUR HELP, WE ARE
GOING TO TRY AND GIVE THEM THE
KIND OF PRIDE AND BOLDNESS THAT
THEY NEED TO TAKE BACK OUR
COUNTRY. SO LET'S WALK DOWN
PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE. I WANT TO
THANK
YOU ALL. GOD BLESS YOU AND GOD
BLESS AMERICA. THANK YOU ALL FOR
BEING HERE. THIS IS INCREDIBLE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; FIGHT FOR TRUMP, FIGHT
FOR TRUMP!
&gt;&gt; FIGHT FOR TRUMP. FIGHT
TRUMP.
FOR TRUMP.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU DON'T FIGHT LIKE , YOU
ARE NOT GOING TO HAVE A COUNTRY
ANYMORE.  THERE WAS ONLY ONE
FIGHT LEFT AND IT WAS A MILE UP
THE ROAD. DONALD TRUMP, THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
ORDERED THE CROWD TO MARCH ON
CONGRESS AND SO THE CROWD
MARCHED. THIS IS INCREDIBLE YOU
HEARD HIM SAY. THAT IS HOW
PRESIDENT TRUMP ENDED
HIS SPEECH. I'D LIKE TO CLOSE
WITH A VERY BRIEF TIMELINE OF
WHAT WAS HAPPENING IN PARALLEL
ALONGSIDE THE PRESIDENT AS HE
SPOKE ON
6 JANUARY. A LITTLE AFTER NOON,
PRESIDENT TRUMP BEGAN HIS SPEECH
WITH A FIERY REFUSAL TO CONCEDE.
HE COMMANDED THE CROWD TO FIGHT
AND MARCH DOWN PENNSYLVANIA
AVENUE AND AROUND 12:20, SOME
ATTENDEES
BEGAN MARCHING. BY 12:30 AS
PRESIDENT TRUMP CONTINUE TO
INCITE HIS SUPPORTERS, LARGE
SEGMENTS OF THE RALLY CROWD HAD
AMASSED AT
THE CAPITAL. AT 12:53 AS THE
PRESIDENT'S SPEECH WAS PLAYING
ON CELL PHONE BROADCASTS, THE
OUTERMOST BARRICADE OF THE
NORTHWEST SIDE OF THE CAPITAL
WAS BREACHED. CAPITAL POLICE
WERE FORCED BACK TO THE STEPS OF
THE CAPITAL. AT 1:10, THE
PRESIDENT ENDED HIS SPEECH WITH
A FINAL CALL TO FIGHT AND A
FINAL ORDER TO MARCH TO THE
CAPITAL. AT 1:45, THE PRESIDENTS
FOLLOWERS SURGED PAST CAPITAL
POLICE SHOUTING THIS IS A
REVOLUTION JUST AFTER 2:10, AN
HOUR AFTER PRESIDENT TRUMP ENDED
HIS SPEECH, THE INSURRECTIONIST
MOB OVERWHELMED
CAPITAL SECURITY AND MADE IT
INSIDE THE HALLS OF CONGRESS.
BECAUSE THE TRUTH IS, THIS
ATTACK NEVER WOULD'VE HAPPENED
BUT FOR
DONALD TRUMP. SO THEY CAME TRUMP
AND TRUMP -- DRAPED IN TRUMPS
FLAG AND USED TO THE AMERICAN
FLAG TO BATTER AND TO BLUDGEON
AND
AT 2:30, I HEARD THAT TERRIFYING
BANGING ON THE HOUSE CHAMBER
DOORS. FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
MORE THAN 200 YEARS, THE SEAT OF
OUR GOVERNMENT WAS RANSACKED ON
OUR WATCH.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, I THINK THIS
WOULD BE A GOOD TIME FOR
A BREAK.
&gt;&gt; I ASKED FOR A RECESS UNTIL
4 PM.
&gt;&gt; THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL OF
FORMER PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP ON
A BREAK NOW UNTIL FOR O'CLOCK.
THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
PRESENTING THE CASE FOR THE
PRESIDENTS IMPEACHMENT. LET'S GO
NOW TO MY GUESTS RHONDA, CAPITOL
HILL REPORTER AND JAMES CALL HIM
-- COLUMNIST FOR THE WASHINGTON
POST. AS CONGRESSMAN DEAN WAS
DESCRIBING WHAT SHE EXPERIENCED
WHAT SHE REALLY TEARED UP AT THE
BEGINNING OF HER SPEECH AND SHE
TEARED UP AT THE END OF HER
PRESENTATION. BOTH TIMES
CONNECTING THE PERSONAL
EXPERIENCE OF MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS BUT ALSO GIVING THAT
REALLY VISCERAL
IMAGE OF THESE ATTACKERS
CARRYING THE FLAG OF DONALD
TRUMP AS THEY USED TO THE
AMERICAN FLAG TO BATTER AND
BRUTALIZE POLICE
OFFICERS, RHONDA.
&gt;&gt; YES. THAT LINE ABOUT THE FLAG
WAS REALLY STARTLING AND YOU ARE
SEEING THE EMOTION OF THESE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AND THAT IS
JUST MIND BLOWING RELATED THINK
ABOUT THE FACT THAT WHEN HAVE
YOU EVER SEEN A CASE WHERE THE
PROSECUTION AS WELL IS THE
JURORS WERE VICTIMS OF THE CRIME
THAT THEY ARE TRYING TO ARGUE
ABOUT. WE ARE REALLY SEEING A
LOT OF THE PERSONAL RECOUNTING
AND RECOLLECTIONS OF THAT DAY. I
THINK THAT IS PROBABLY A PART OF
THE STRATEGY OF THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS TO INJECT THEIR
PERSONAL EXPERIENCES OF
JANUARY 6 AND BRING THAT TO MY
TO THE SENATORS BECAUSE THEY
ALSO HAVE VERY SIMILAR
REMEMBRANCES OF THAT DAY. SO TO
GIVE YOU A LITTLE BIT OF
CONTEXT, I TALKED TO A MEMBER OF
CONGRESS WHO REALLY VIVIDLY
DISCUSSED HOW SHE HAD TO LIE ON
THE FLOOR AND SHE DIDN'T REALIZE
HOW DISTRESSED SHE WAS UNTIL SHE
SAW A VIRAL PHOTO THAT WENT
AROUND SOCIAL MEDIA THAT NIGHT
AND THE NEXT DAY SHOWING HOW
SCARED SHE WAS AND SHE WAS
HOLDING THE HAND OF
JASON CROW WHO WAS A COMBAT
VETERAN AND HE HAS EVEN SAID HE
THOUGHT HE WAS GOING TO HAVE TO
USE THOSE SKILLS TO FIGHT HIS
WAY OUT. THERE WERE HOURS OF AND
CERTAINTY THAT ALL OF THESE
MEMBERS EXPERIENCED IN THE HOUSE
MANAGERS WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THE JURY, THE SENATORS AS WELL
AS THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DON'T
FORGET HOW DEVASTATING THAT IS.
I DON'T THINK THE TEARING UP OR
ANY OF THE CRIES YOU ARE SEEING
FROM THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS IS
NOT GENUINE. I THINK THEY ARE
ALL STILL GRAPPLING WITH THE
TRAUMA OF THE DAY. IF YOU ARE
APPEAR ON THE HILL, JANUARY 6 IS
VERY SO MUCH GOING ON. IT IS
HARD TO GET ANYWHERE NEAR THE
CAPITAL. THERE ARE GATES THAT
SURROUNDS ALL OF THE BLOCKS
AROUND THE OFFICE BUILDINGS AS
WELL AS THE CAPITAL ITSELF.
THERE ARE CHECKPOINTS ALL OVER
THE PLACE. YOU HAVE TO GO
THROUGH A LINE OF GUARDS TO
CHECK YOUR BADGE TO SEE IF YOU
ARE CREDENTIALED TO EVEN ENTER
THE BUILDING. SECURITY IS REALLY
HIGH RIGHT NOW AND EVEN SOME OF
THE INFRASTRUCTURE OF THE
CAPITAL IS STILL
BEING REPAIRED BECAUSE OF THE
VIOLENCE THAT HAPPENED ON THE
SIXTH. THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
WANT TO MAKE SURE PEOPLE DO NOT
FORGET THAT AND THEY ARE
THEMSELVES HUMAN AND STILL
WORKING THROUGH IT ALSO.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, ONE OF THE ELEMENTS
THAT THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
ARE TRYING TO DRAW RIGHT NOW IS
CAUSE AND EFFECT. IT IS ONE
THING TO SAY PRESIDENT
TRUMPS COMMENTS DIRECTLY INCITED
THOSE PEOPLE TO GO UP TO THE
CAPITAL AND BREAK INTO IT AND
ATTACK
POLICE OFFICERS. BUT IT IS SORT
OF AN EASIER WAY TO IMAGINE IT
AND SAY IT TO PHRASE IT IN
TERMS OF
IF THE PRESIDENT HAD NOT DONE
THESE THINGS AND SAID THESE
THINGS, THERE NEVER WOULD HAVE
BEEN AN ATTACK ON THE CAPITAL.
&gt;&gt; PEOPLE NEVER WOULD'VE COME TO
WASHINGTON IF HE HADN'T SPENT
THE 19 DAYS LEADING UP TO
JANUARY 6 URGING THEM TO COME
AND SAYING IT WOULD BE WILD AND
THERE WAS SOME VALUE AND
REPETITION. THE CONGRESSWOMAN
FROM PENNSYLVANIA NOTABLY IS THE
CONGRESSWOMAN WHO REPRESENTS
BRUCE CASTOR, THE TRUMP ATTORNEY
WHO SPOKE FIRST YESTERDAY AND
SHE NOTED AT THE TOP OF HER
REMARKS WHICH WERE VERY POWERFUL
THAT SHE IS AN ENGLISH PROFESSOR
BY BACKGROUND AND REALLY DID
HIGHLIGHT THE POWER
OF WORDS. I THOUGHT SOME OF THE
MOST DAMNING EVIDENCE AGAINST
TRUMP WERE HIS OWN WORDS. IT WAS
INTERESTING THE USE OF
REPETITION. OBVIOUSLY PASSED
IMPEACHMENT TRIALS HAVEN'T HAD
AUDIO VISUALS EVEN LIKE THIS. WE
HEARD SOME TAPE FROM THE
WASHINGTON POST OBTAINED AUDIO
OF TRUMP'S CALL TO GEORGIA
SECRETARY
OF STATE. THE AUDIOVISUAL
PRESENTATION FROM THAT STOP THE
STEEL RALLY, FIRST WE HEARD WHAT
YOU WOULD SEE
ON CAMERA, WATCHING TELEVISION
WHICH WAS JUST TRUMPS SPEECH AND
THEN CONGRESSWOMAN DEAN WENT TO
SHOW FOOTAGE FROM THE CROWD,
WATCHING HOW THEY REACTED TO
WHAT TRUMP WAS SAYING. WHEN
TRUMP SAYS WE HAVE GOT TO GO
FIGHT LIKE IF WE WILL STILL HAVE
A COUNTRY,  YOU LITERALLY HEARD
FROM THE CROWD FOOTAGE PEOPLE
WERE RESPONDING TO THOSE REMARKS
WHICH WE HEARD A COUPLE
DIFFERENT TIMES PLAYED DURING
THAT PRESENTATION THINK STORMED
THE CAPITAL RIGHT NOW, TAKE THE
CAPITAL, FIGHT,
FIGHT, FIGHT. THAT AS EVIDENCE
GOES IS A REMARKABLE LINKAGE
BETWEEN THE WORDS OF THE
PRESIDENT AND THE INCITEMENT OF
THE RIDERS AND THE INSURRECTION.
THAT PRESENTATION
I THOUGHT THAT A VERY EFFECTIVE
JOB AT LAYING OUT HOW WE GOT UP
TO
JANUARY 6 AND WHAT HAPPENED THAT
DAY. ALSO SHE POINTED OUT TRUMP
PRAISING RUDY GIULIANI FOR THE
COMMENTS HE HAD JUST MADE AND
SORTED THE HISTORY OF TRUMP
CONDONING VIOLENT ACTIONS BY HIS
SUPPORTERS. SHE NOTED IN THE
CROWD THAT DAY ON JANUARY 6, THE
SAME PEOPLE HAD GOTTEN INTO A
CARAVAN AND SURROUNDED A BIDEN
CAMPAIGN BUS IN TEXAS WHICH
TRUMP HAD CHEERED ON. IT IS THE
PATTERN OF CONDUCT THAT WHEN YOU
PUT ALL OF THIS TOGETHER, EVEN
THOUGH WE ALL LIVED
THROUGH IT, PEOPLE WHO ARE
WATCHING AND PAYING CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE NEWS BUT WHEN
YOU PUT IT ALL TOGETHER, THAT
THROUGH LINE REALLY DOES CREATE
A PRETTY STRONG HEAVY CASE THAT
TRUMP DID INCITE THE
INSURRECTION.
&gt;&gt; LET'S TALK ABOUT THAT
INCIDENT THAT JAMES
JUST HIGHLIGHTED, THAT AMBUSH OF
THE BIDEN HARRIS CAMPAIGN BUS
IN TEXAS. AT THE TIME, IT DREW
WIDESPREAD CONDEMNATION AT THAT
COULD HAPPEN BUT PRESIDENT TRUMP
CHANGED THAT WHOLE CONVERSATION
BY TWEETING OUT AS WE SAW REALLY
A PRAISEWORTHY ENTHUSIASTIC GO
GET HIM SORT
OF VIDEO.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT. PRAISEWORTHY, SAYING
THAT HE LOVED TEXAS, THAT IS
WHERE THAT SCENE HAPPENED AND
EVEN THERE WAS MUSIC UNDERNEATH
IT. IT JUST SHOWS THAT IT IS
GOING TO BE HARD FOR
HIS TEAM TO REFUTE THAT BECAUSE
THERE IS DOCUMENTATION. HE
TWEETED THESE VIDEOS, HE ADDED
HIS OWN COMMENTARY TO THE VIDEOS
SO THAT IS SOMETHING I AM
PROBABLY GOING TO BE
LOOKING FOR WHEN WE GET TO HIS
TEAMS ARGUMENTS IS HOW ARE THEY
GOING TO REFUTE ANY OF THAT OR
HOW ARE THEY EVEN GOING TO
ADDRESS IT. THIS IS ONE OF THE
SHARPEST TOOLS IN THE KIT FOR
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AS THEY
HAVE ALL SORTS OF DOCUMENTATION.
THEY HAVE DAILY TWEETS LEADING
UP TO THE EVENTS OF JANUARY 6
AND WHAT THEY ARE DOING RIGHT
NOW IS TRY TO DRAW
THAT LINE BETWEEN THAT ACTIVITY,
THAT CONDUCT AND BEHAVIOR AND
HOW IT LED TO JANUARY 6 AS A
COMBINATION, NOT AS A SINGULAR
EVENT.
&gt;&gt; THE FBI WAS LOOKING INTO THAT
AND NOT ONLY DID PRESIDENT TRUMP
EXPRESSED SUPPORT FOR IT AND
CALL THEM PATRIOTS, MARCO RUBIO
DID AS WELL SO WE CIRCLE BACK TO
THE
ROLE OF SOME OF THE MEMBERS OF
THE REPUBLICAN PARTY WHO ARE
EVEN PRESENT AND PART OF THIS
TRIAL.
&gt;&gt; TRUMP CRITICIZED FBI DIRECTOR
CHRIS WHOM HE APPOINTED FOR
INVESTIGATING
THE INCIDENT. REALLY AGAIN WHEN
YOU PUT ALL
THIS TOGETHER, IT IS A REMINDER
THAT THESE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
WE TALKED DURING THE LAST BREAK
ABOUT WHO THE AUDIENCE IS HERE.
I THINK THE AUDIENCE AS MUCH AS
ANYONE IS HISTORY. HISTORY IS
VERY UNLIKELY TO BE KIND TO
THIS PRESIDENT WHEN IN THIS CASE
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE
LAYING OUT REALLY IS
SOMETHING THAT IS GOING TO BE
VERY HARD FOR TRUMP LOYALISTS TO
REHABILITATE HIS IMAGE WHEN YOU
PUT ALL OF THIS
OUT THERE.
OBVIOUSLY THE BURDEN IS HIGH IN
TERMS OF TRYING TO CONVINCE
REPUBLICANS TO DEFECT BUT RIGHT
NOW, THERE ARE SIX REPUBLICANS
WHO HAVE SIGNALED OPENNESS TO IT
PERHAPS OTHERS. THIS COULD STILL
BE THE MOST BIPARTISAN
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL VOTES IN
AMERICAN HISTORY.
&gt;&gt; IMPEACHMENT MANAGER AND
DELEGATE TO THE US HOUSE
OF REPRESENTATIVES
STACY PLASKETT USE GRAPHICS TO
PUNCTUATE THE PLANNING INVOLVED
IN THE MOB ATTACK. LET'S WATCH.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF A POST
THAT WAS CAPTURED FROM ONE OF
THE SITES DEDICATED TO DONALD
TRUMP THAT WE JUST TALKED ABOUT.
SHORTLY BEFORE THE SITE WAS
TAKEN DOWN. THE MEME READS QUOTE
THEY CAPITAL IS OUR GOAL.
EVERYTHING ELSE IS
A DISTRACTION. EVERY CORRUPT
MEMBER OF CONGRESS LOCKED IN ONE
ROOM AND SURROUNDED BY REAL
AMERICANS IS AN OPPORTUNITY THAT
WILL NEVER PRESENT ITSELF AGAIN.
LET THAT SINK IN. THINK ABOUT
THAT. THE EXACT THING THAT
HAPPENED ON JANUARY 6, THAT WAS
THEIR GOAL. THEY SAID IT OUT
LOUD ON SITES THAT THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION WAS
ACTIVELY MONITORING.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, LET'S GO TO YOU FOR
MORE ON THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
BUILDING OF THESE EXAMPLES AND
CASES OF
REALLY THREATS MADE TO MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS AND VICE PRESIDENT
MIKE PENCE.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS RIGHT. THERE TRYING
TO SHOW THEIR COLLEAGUES THERE
IN THE SENATE THAT THE
INSURRECTION US UNDER THE
DIRECTION OF DONALD TRUMP WERE
COMING FOR THEM. THE WORDS THAT
STACY JUST READ, THEY WERE
CHILLING TO PROBABLY
ALL AMERICANS BECAUSE THESE
PLANNERS WERE NOTING THE FACT
THAT ALL 435 MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
WOULD BE HERE AT ONE TIME AND
THAT THIS WAS THE OPPORTUNITY.
THEY WERE LOOKING AT IT AS YES A
LAST STAND TO INTERRUPT THE
CERTIFICATION PROCESS OF JOE
BIDEN'S WENT BUT THEY WERE ALSO
LOOKING AT IT FROM THE
PERSPECTIVE OF YOU DON'T USUALLY
SEE ALL MEMBERS OF CONGRESS IN
ONE PLACE FOR AN EXTENDED PERIOD
OF TIME AND ON THE JANUARY 6 THE
CERTIFICATION PROCEDURE, A PART
OF THAT WAS THEY ALL HAD TO BE
HERE FOR THAT. EVERY MEMBER HAD
TO BE HERE FOR IT. THE HOUSE HAS
A ROLE WHERE THEY CAN VOTE BY
PROXY BECAUSE OF THE PANDEMIC
BUT ALL OF THEM WERE HERE TO BE
A PART OF THAT CERTIFICATION
PROCESS. IT WAS WELL KNOWN
AND REPORTED BEFORE JANUARY 6
THAT IT WOULD BE A LONG DAY SO
IT LOOKS LIKE THE ORGANIZERS OF
THE INSURRECTION KNEW THAT AND
KNEW THAT THESE MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS WOULD ALL BE HERE AT
THE SAME TIME. SO WHAT STACY IS
TRYING TO DO IS TO APPEAL TO HER
COLLEAGUES IN THE SENATE
ESPECIALLY THE REPUBLICANS AND
TELLING THEM THAT THESE PEOPLE
WERE COMING FOR US, ALL OF US
AND THE VICE PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; VERY IMPORTANT POINTS AS THEY
TRY TO WIN OVER THIS JURY. JAMES
AS YOU HAVE TALKED ABOUT HISTORY
BEING AN IMPORTANT ELEMENT HERE,
ALSO THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC. A LOT OF THESE
MEMBERS CAN PROBABLY RELATE TO
CONGRESSWOMAN DEANS
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE AND
RECOUNTING. THEY DON'T
NECESSARILY NEED TO HEAR BECAUSE
MANY OF THEM LIVED AT BUT
PERHAPS THE AMERICAN PEOPLE NEED
TO HEAR IT TO BE REMINDED OF
JUST HOW TERRIFYING THIS
EXPERIENCE WAS TO MANY AMERICANS
WHO WERE TRAPPED IN THAT
BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY. WE TALK ABOUT THE
FIRST IMPEACHMENT TRIAL, IT WAS
SOMETHING THAT WAS HAPPENING ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THE WORLD IN
UKRAINE ABOUT WEAPONS TRANSFERS
AND MONEY BEING HELD UP AND
ASKING FOR A FAVOR AND A
PRINTOUT OF A TRANSCRIPT.
OBVIOUSLY FOR THE PEOPLE IN THE
ROOM, THIS WAS INCREDIBLY
VISCERAL. THEY FEARED FOR THEIR
LIVES MANY OF THEM. OBVIOUSLY WE
CAN RELATE TO IT AND WE ARE HERE
IN WASHINGTON. RHONDA AND MANY
OF OUR COLLEAGUES WERE IN THAT
BUILDING ON THAT THEY. WE KNOW A
LOT OF PEOPLE WHO WORK IN THAT
BUILDING. FOR A LOT OF
EVERYDAY AMERICANS, IT IS
STRIKING TO SEE ALL OF THIS PUT
TOGETHER BECAUSE HEARING THESE
STORIES, THESE TESTIMONIALS
REALLY CAPTURES JUST THE
VISCERAL NESTS
OF IT. THAT IS ONE OF THE
REASONS THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
PRIVATELY REALLY WANT TO CALL
WITNESSES AT THE END OF THE
WEEK, THEY WANT TO VOTE SO THERE
CAN BE WITNESSES. THERE IS
OBVIOUSLY REPUBLICANS WHO ARE
EAGER TO
MOVE ON, NOT DWELL ON THIS AND
THERE ARE DEMOCRATS WHO WANT TO
ADVANCE PRESIDENT BIDEN'S
AGENDA. I THINK YOU WOULD HEAR
MORE OF THESE TESTIMONIALS AND
PERHAPS THERE IS DIMINISHING
RETURNS, PEOPLE WHO ARE WATCHING
HER HEARING THESE INCREDIBLY
EMOTIONALLY
POWERFUL STORIES AND BUT THERE
ARE A LOT OF POLICE OFFICERS WHO
ARE BEING TALKED ABOUT WHO ALSO
HAVE STORIES OF HAVING THE N
WORD YELLED AT THEM AS JIMMY
RECOUNTED EARLIER TODAY OF
HAVING FLAGPOLES JAMMED TOWARD
THEM. A LOT OF PEOPLE HAVE
REALLY TRAUMATIZING STORIES
ABOUT
JANUARY 6.
&gt;&gt; TO THAT AND JAMES OF SORT OF
GIVING ALL OF US A REMINDER OF
WHAT IT WAS LIKE ON JANUARY 6
AND WHAT IT IS STILL LIKE TODAY,
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGER TED
ARGUE THAT DONALD TRUMP TURNED
AGAINST EVERYONE WHO ACCEPTED
THE REALITY AND ACCEPTED
THE FACT THAT HE LOST THE
ELECTION. LET'S LISTEN.
&gt;&gt; HOW DID OUR EXCEPTIONAL
COUNTRY GET TO THE POINT WHERE A
VIOLENT MOB ATTACKED OUR CAPITAL
MURDERING A
POLICE OFFICER, ASSAULTING OVER
140 OTHER OFFICERS, HOW DO WE
GET TO A POINT WHERE RIDERS
DESECRATED, DEFILED AND
DISHONORED YOUR
SENATE CHAMBER? THE VERY PLACE
IN WHICH YOU SIT BECAME A CRIME
SCENE AND WHERE NATIONAL GUARD
TROOPS STILL PATROL OUTSIDE
WEARING BODY ARMOR. I WILL SHOW
YOU HOW WE GOT HERE. PRESIDENT
DONALD
J TRUMP RAN OUT OF NONVIOLENT
OPTIONS TO MAINTAIN POWER.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO
RHONDA. WHAT IS IT LIKE UP
THERE? YOU ARE IN THE CAPITAL
COMPLEX UP THERE. WHAT IS IT
LIKE A MONTH PLUS AFTER
THE RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; IN SOME WAYS, IT FEELS LIKE
IT WAS JUST YESTERDAY. THERE ARE
STILL SO MANY PHYSICAL REMINDERS
OF WHAT HAPPENED. I WAS IN A
ROOM BELOW THE AREA I AM ON
RIGHT NOW. I'M ON THE SENATE
SIDE OF THE CAPITAL AND THERE
WERE KIND OF RESTRUCTURING OF
A WINDOW, A TAPED UP WINDOW AND
PAINTING TO SHOW THAT PERHAPS
THIS IS STILL BEING LOOKED AT AS
A CRIME SCENE BY THOSE WHO WORK
HERE AT
THE CAPITAL, THAT THEY HAVE TO
FIX A LOT OF THE WINDOWS, FIX
SOME OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE AND
IT IS STILL A VERY ACTIVE CRIME
SCENE I WOULD SAY. RIGHT NOW, IT
IS MORE QUIET THAN IT WAS THE
LAST IMPEACHMENT. I REMEMBER THE
ENERGY AND HERE AND WHERE I AM
AT, A LOT OF MEDIA RUNNING IN
THE HALLWAY. WE WERE ALLOWED TO
GO TO PLACES WE WERE NO LONGER
ALLOWED TO GO TO BECAUSE OF
THE SECURITY, AND IT JUST KEEPS
BRINGING HOME THAT JANUARY 6
EVENT. THE NATIONAL GUARD IS
STILL VERY MUCH HERE. THE NUMBER
HAS BEEN REDUCED BUT THEY STILL
HAVE A PRESENCE AT ALL OF THE
ENTRANCE POINTS OF
THE CAPITAL AND IT IS NOT JUST
THE CAPITOL BUILDING ITSELF THAT
HAS A PERIMETER AROUND IT. THE
ENTIRE CAMPUS WHERE YOU HAVE
SOME OF THE HOUSE AND SENATE
OFFICE BUILDINGS, THOSE ARE ALSO
GATED OFF BY HIGH FENCING WITH
BARBED WIRE. IT IS A MUST AS IF
YOU HAVE EVER DRIVEN BY A
MAXIMUM SECURITY PRISON, THAT IS
SORT OF WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE AND
IT EXTENDS A FEW BLOCKS OUTSIDE
OF THE CAPITAL AND THE OFFICE
BUILDINGS. IT IS VERY MUCH IS
SOMETHING THAT I BELIEVE ALL OF
THESE REPRESENTATIVES AND
SENATORS HAVE TO REMEMBER EVERY
TIME THEY COME IN
THIS BUILDING.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
ALL THE OTHER PREDICATES AND
CALLS TO CONGRESS FROM THE
SECRETARY OF STATE BUT A FEW
HOURS OF THE DEMOCRATIC DINNER
BREAK, WE MAY SEE SOME NEVER
BEFORE SEEN FOOTAGE.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LIKE TO THINK ABOUT
THE POWER OF THAT FOOTAGE AND
WHAT IT IS TRYING TO DO IN THIS
MOMENT?
&gt;&gt; THIS IS ONE OF THOSE STORIES
WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT THAT GETS
WORSE THE MORE WE HAVE SEEN.
SOME OF WHAT WE HAVE SEEN FROM
THE DAY IN THE CAPITAL AND WE
HAVE OF GREAT VISUAL FORENSICS
TEAM THAT HAS BEEN
RECONSTRUCTING THIS AND PUTTING
IT TOGETHER. IT IS CAMERA
FOOTAGE FROM REPORTERS WHO
HAPPEN TO BE STANDING IN SOME
SPOT AS THE MOB WENT BY OR SOME
PHOTOGRAPHERS WHO CAPTURED SOME
IMAGES BUT THE CAPITAL CAPITOL
IS ONE OF THOSE FORTIFIED
COMPLEXES IN THE WORLD IN TERMS
OF HOW MANY SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS
AROUND. THEY ARE GOING TO SEE
ANGLES AND SCENES THAT WE
HAVEN'T SEEN BEFORE AND THAT
WILL BE HOW DANGEROUS THIS MOB
WAS AND HOW FAR WORSE THE BREACH
WAS THEN WE EVEN REALIZED ON
JANUARY 6. AND HOW CLOSE
-- WHETHER IT WAS THE VICE
PRESIDENT OR OTHER MEMBERS, HOW
CLOSE THIS COULD'VE POTENTIALLY
BEEN FAR WORSE IN TERMS OF THE
LOSS OF LIFE AND THE VIOLENCE.
&gt;&gt; WE JUST SAW PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
LEGAL TEAM HAD BACK IN AND A
REMINDER THAT IT IS THE
IMPEACHMENT TEAMS RESPONSIBILITY
TO PROSECUTE THE CASE TODAY AND
THEN THE FLOOR WILL BE OPEN
TOMORROW TO PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
TEAM AND THEY WILL HAVE TIME TO
DEFEND PRESIDENT TRUMP ON THIS
ONE ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT.
PRESIDENT TRUMP, NO MATTER WHAT
IS STILL THE ONLY PRESIDENT IN
AMERICAN HISTORY TO BE IMPEACHED
TWICE AND WE WILL SEE JUST HOW
FAR THIS ATTEMPT BY THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS GETS TO
CONVICT HIM IN THE SENATE. IT IS
A LITTLE AFTER FOUR CLOCK YEAR
AND YOU'RE WATCHING SPECIAL
COVERAGE FROM THE WASHINGTON
POST.
RHONDA, JAMES LAID OUT FOR US
WHAT WE ARE EXPECTING TO SEE FOR
THE REST OF THE AFTERNOON AND
INTO THE EVENING, FRANKLY. THERE
IS THIS
CHRONOLOGICAL BUILD THE
DEMOCRATS HAVE BEEN DOING, GOING
BACK TO PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
COMMENTS BEFORE JANUARY 6. WE
HAVE NOT TALKED ABOUT THE
MORNING OF THE SIXTH AND THE
SPEECH AND NOW THE DRAMA REALLY
TURNS TO THE CAPITAL CHECK
CAPITOL ITSELF.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS EXACTLY RIGHT. WE
LEFT OFF WITH MADELEINE DEAN WHO
DISSECTED PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
SPEECH SENTENCE BY SENTENCE AND
LINE BY LINE SHOWING HOW THE
CROWD REACTED WHEN THEY HEARD
HIM SAY SOME OF THOSE
STATEMENTS. NEXT UP WE ARE
LIKELY TO HEAR THAT THEY ARE
GOING TO START LOOKING AT THE
ATTACK, WHEN THAT MOB CAME TO
THE CAPITAL, WHAT THEY DID
OUTSIDE MOMENTS BEFORE ENTERING
AND ALSO WHAT THEY DID WHEN THEY
ENTERED. SO WE ARE REALLY
WAITING FOR THE HOUSE MANAGERS
TO SHOW THIS NEW FOOTAGE THAT
THEY SAY, I HAVE HEARD THAT IT
IS GOING TO BE
VERY DIFFICULT TO WATCH. SOME
SCENES WILL BE VERY DIFFICULT TO
WATCH SO THESE ARE THINGS THAT
ARE REALLY GOING TO HELP
UNDERSCORE WHAT THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS ARE TRYING TO DO HERE
WHICH IS SHOW THAT THE SPEECH ON
THE SIXTH LED TO THE PEOPLE
COMING HERE AND WREAKING HAVOC
ON THE CAPITOL.
&gt;&gt; JAMES COMER EARLY IN THE DAY
AS THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGER, JAMIE RASKIN KICK
THINGS OFF, HE GAVE A WARNING TO
TEACHERS SAYING IF YOU HAVE
PEOPLE WATCHING THIS AS AN
EDUCATIONAL EXPERIENCE, GREAT,
WE SHALL BE WATCHING IT BUT HE
GAVE THIS WARNING OF THE FACT
THAT THERE WILL BE DIFFICULT
DRAMATIC FOOTAGE PLAYED, SO HE
SAID IF YOU ARE A TEACHER, A
PARENT, BE AWARE OF THAT, REVIEW
IT AND PERHAPS A WATCH WHICH
WITH YOUR YOUNG PEOPLE. IT IS A
POWERFUL COMMENT. IT ALSO IS A
LAWYER TACTIC TO SORT OF PREVIEW
THIS IS BIG, HEAVY STUFF. LET'S
NOT TAKE THE POLITICS TOTALLY
OUT OF THE THINGS THAT
CONGRESSMAN RASKIN WAS SAYING
BUT WE ARE GETTING TO THE DAY
WHEN
THIS COULD BE DIFFICULT TO
WATCH.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY AND THAT IS A
WARNING WE DID NOT HEAR YOUR GO.
IT IS A WARNING WE DID NOT EVEN
HEAR DURING BILL CLINTON'S
IMPEACHMENT FOR THE SEXUAL
CONDUCT HE WAS ACCUSED OF. AND
YOU ARE RIGHT, IT IS A LAWYER
TACTIC BUT IT IS ALSO SOMETHING
THAT HIGHLIGHTS JUST HOW
VISCERAL AND HOW CLOSE THIS IS.
THIS WAS NOT JUST AN ATTACK ON
POLITICIANS. THIS WAS AN ATTACK
ON OUR TEMPLE OF DEMOCRACY AND
KIND OF ONE OF THE KEY SYMBOLS
OF THE AMERICAN CONSTITUTIONAL
REPUBLIC IN THE SYSTEM OF
GOVERNMENT ITSELF. JANUARY 6 IS
A DATE THAT
IS PRESCRIBED IN THE
CONSTITUTION FOR WHEN THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE OF VOTES ARE
COUNTED AND CERTIFIED. SO THIS
IS AN ATTACK ON A WORKPLACE AND
WE HAVE HEARD A LOT ABOUT THE
PEOPLE WHO WORK IN THE WORKPLACE
AND HOW IT FELT FOR THEM BUT I
THINK ALL AMERICANS IDENTIFY TO
SOME DEGREE WITH THIS PLACE
BECAUSE IT IS SO IMPORTANT TO
OUR CIVIC LIFE AND THAT IS WHY I
THINK THESE VIDEOS WILL BE SO
JARRING FOR SOME PEOPLE BECAUSE
THIS IS NOT AN ATTACK ON NANCY
PELOSI OR CERTAIN REPUBLICAN
SENATORS. THIS IS AN ATTACK ON
THE AMERICAN SYSTEM ITSELF.
&gt;&gt; AND WHY THE IMPORTANCE OF
SOMEBODY LIKE CONGRESSMAN DEAN
TELLING HER PERSONAL STORY AND
TALKING ABOUT PLACING A CALL TO
HER HUSBAND AND SONS. THIS DOES
SHOW THAT MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
ARE PEOPLE, TOO. IT SEEMS
OBVIOUS BUT IT IS SO EASY TO
CARICATURE AND VILIFY A
POLITICIAN WITH A P THAT MAY BE
ON THE OPPOSING SIDE.
THEY HAVE STAFF AND FAMILIES AND
THIS WAS A TERRIFYING
EXPERIENCE. I WANT TO GO BACK TO
RHONDA WHO HAS BEEN TALKING WITH
SOME LAWMAKERS WHO HAVE GONE
THROUGH THAT DRAMATIC DATE.
RHONDA, WE ARE ALSO THOUGH,
SEEING FOOTAGE RELATED TO POLICE
OFFICERS AND
IN THE 13 MINUTE MONTAGE THAT
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS PLAYED
YESTERDAY, THERE WERE PHYSICAL,
BRUTAL ATTACKS ON POLICE OFFICER
AT AND HATEFUL, ANGRY LANGUAGE
USED AGAINST THEM, VILE, VERBAL
ATTACKS ON THEM AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; AND I AM WONDERING, TOO IF
THIS NEVER BEFORE SEEN FOOTAGE
THAT WE MIGHT SEE TODAY SHOWS
THAT AND HIGHLIGHTS THAT THESE
OFFICERS WERE OVERTAKEN VERY
VIOLENTLY BY THE INSURRECTIONIST
. I AM ARE CALLING BACK WHEN
I WAS HERE ON THE SIXTH AND WE
WERE EVACUATED FROM CANON
HOSPITAL AND TOLD TO GO INTO THE
BASEMENT. A STAFFER WITH THE
ARCHITECT OFFICE TOLD US SHE WAS
QUITE SCARED THAT SHE SAW THE
MOB WAS OVERTAKING THE CAPITOL
POLICE OFFICERS AND
SHE SAID I THINK THAT IS WHY
THEY WANT YOU ALL IN THE
BASEMENT BECAUSE THEY DON'T HAVE
ENOUGH MEN AND WOMEN TO PROTECT
YOU ANYWHERE ELSE. THEY MADE
EVERYBODY IN ONE SPOT. I THINK
WE ARE GOING TO SEE SOME SCENES
FROM THIS SECURITY ANGLE AND THE
SECURITY CAMERA FOOTAGE ANGLE.
WE ARE GOING TO SEE SCENES THAT
REALLY SHOW HOW VIOLENT THIS
GROUP WAS TOWARD THE MEN AND
WOMEN WHO ARE HERE TO THE
OFFICERS. THAT IS GOING TO BE
PART OF THE CELL THAT THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER
'S WANT TO SELL TO THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE AND SENATORS THAT THIS IS
REALLY NOT A PARTISAN ISSUE. WE
WERE ALL IN GREAT DANGER.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA COLEMAN, JAMES HOLMAN,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH. LET'S GO
BACK TO THE FLOOR OF THE SENATE
AS PROCEEDINGS CONTINUE.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; SENATOR PRO TEM PATRICK LEAHY
IN THE CHAIR PRESIDING OVER THIS
TRIAL. WE ARE WATCHING THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS GET READY
TO TAKE THE FLOOR AGAIN HERE.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: WE ARE HEARING THAT
THIS WILL BE A TOUGH
PRESENTATION. FOR PEOPLE TO
WATCH. BECAUSE OF THE GRAPHIC
NATURE OF IT, WE ARE GETTING
THAT FROM OUR COLLEAGUES WHO ARE
FOLLOWING THIS, FROM PEOPLE
PREPARING AND INVOLVED WITH THIS
PRESENTATION. YOU CAN SEE
LEAD IMPEACHMENT MANAGER RASKIN
THERE. WE ARE HEARING FROM ALL
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AS PART
OF THIS PROCESS. THERE GOES LEAD
MANAGER RASKIN TO THE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE ORDER IN THE SENATE
PLEASE?
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR. RASKIN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MR. PRESIDENT,
MEMBERS OF THE SENATE. AT THIS
POINT, REPRESENTATIVES PLASKETT
AND SWALLOW WILL TAKE YOU
THROUGH THE ACTUAL DAY OF THE
ATTACK. THEY WILL CREATE THE
ATTACK FOCUSING ON THREATS TO
VICE PRESIDENT -- PANTS, SPEAKER
PELOSI, THE JOINT SESSION AND
LAW ENFORCEMENT. I DO WANT TO
ALERT EVERYONE THAT THERE IS
SOME VERY GRAPHIC VIOLENT
FOOTAGE COMING JUST SO PEOPLE
ARE AWARE AND I'M GOING TO CALL
AGAIN ON
MISS PLASKETT WHO WAS THE SENIOR
COUNSEL FOR DEPUTY GENERAL UNDER
ATTORNEY GENERAL ASHCROFT SO SHE
IS A VERY WELL TRAINED AND
EXPERIENCED PROSECUTOR AS YOU
CAN TELL.
&gt;&gt;&gt;
MR. PRESIDENT, SENATORS
, ALMOST ALL OF US WERE HERE ON
JANUARY 6. AND WE ALL HAVE OUR
INDIVIDUAL EXPERIENCES. BUT WE
FELT, WHAT WE SAW, WHAT WE HEARD
. WE HAVE SEEN CLIPS AND REPORTS
IN THE MEDIA BUT I HAVE TO TELL
YOU, IT WAS NOT UNTIL PREPARING
FOR THIS TRIAL THAT I UNDERSTOOD
THE FULL SCOPE AND LEARNED THE
INFORMATION THAT YOU ARE GOING
TO SEE, THAT I UNDERSTOOD THE
EFFORT TO ATTACK A RECEIPT OF
GOVERNMENT
. IN ORDER TO CARRY OUT
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S MISSION, TO
PREVENT THE CERTIFICATION OF A
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION. IT WAS AN
ATTACK TO OUR REPUBLIC. TO OUR
DEMOCRATIC PROCESS. MY
COLLEAGUES, MANAGER
SWALWELL AND I ARE GOING TO WALK
YOU THROUGH THE ATTACK ON THE
CAPITOL THAT DAY AND  THE DANGER
THAT IT POST TO THE VICE
PRESIDENT, TO THE SPEAKER OF THE
HOUSE, TO YOU ALL AS SENATORS,
MY COLLEAGUES IN THE HOUSE,
CAPITOL POLICE AND EVERYONE WHO
WORKS IN AND AROUND THIS
CAPITOL. AS YOU HAVE, PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAD BEEN TELLING HIS
SUPPORTERS AND HIS MILLIONS OF
TWITTER FOLLOWERS THAT PENCE HAD
THE ABILITY
TO SECURE THE PRESIDENCY FOR
TRUMP, THAT MIKE PENCE ALONE
HAVE THE POWER TO OVERTURN THE
ELECTION RESULTS. -- IF HE WOULD
JUST DO IT. BUT AT 12:50 5 PM ON
JANUARY 6, VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
FORMALLY REFUSED THE PRESIDENT'S
DEMAND.
HE WROTE, AND I QUOTE, "IT IS MY
CONSIDERED JUDGMENT THAT MY OATH
TO SUPPORT AND DEFEND THE
CONSTITUTION CONSTRAINS ME
FROM CLAIMING UNILATERAL
AUTHORITY TO DETERMINE WHICH
ELECTORAL VOTES SHOULD BE
COUNTED AND WHICH SHOULD NOT."
PENCE ENDED HIS LETTER WITH A
PASSAGE INCLUDING THE WORDS, "I
WILL DO MY DUTY." EVEN THOUGH
THE COUNT RESULTED IN THE DEFEAT
OF HIS PARTY AND HIS OWN
CANDIDACY, VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
HAD THE COURAGE TO STAND AGAINST
THE PRESIDENT. TELL THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC THE TRUTH AND UPHOLD OUR
CONSTITUTION. THAT IS
PATRIOTISM. THAT PATRIOTISM IS
ALSO WHAT PUT VICE PRESIDENT IN
SO MUCH DANGER ON JANUARY 6 BY
THE MOB SENT BY OUR PRESIDENT.
TO THE PRESIDENT AND THE MOB HE
INCITED, THAT DUTY TO OUR
CONSTITUTION WAS AN ALL-OUT
BETRAYAL. AND THE VICE PRESIDENT
WAS THE DIRECT TARGET OF THAT
RAGE.
AT 12:50 3 PM, SENATORS, MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS, VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE, WERE IN THEIR RESPECTIVE
CHAMBERS OUTSIDE -- OUTSIDE,
WRITERS, INCLUDING SOME FROM THE
-- BOYS, BROKE THROUGH THE
BARRICADES SURROUNDING THE LAWN
OF THE CAPITOL.
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; 12 MINUTES LATER, VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE BEGAN PRESIDING
OVER THE JOINT SESSION OF
CONGRESS TO CERTIFY THE RESULTS
OF THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION.
YOU CAN SEE VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
GAMBLING IN THE JOINT SESSION
HERE.
&gt;&gt; MADAM SPEAKER, MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS, -- THE CONSTITUTIONS
OF THE LAWS OF THE UNITED
STATES, THE SENATE AND HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES ARE READ MEETING
IN JOINT SESSION TO VERIFY THE
CERTIFICATES AND COUNT VOTES OF
ELECTORATES IN SEVERAL STATES.
THE PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES.
&gt;&gt; WHILE VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
PRESIDED OVER THE JOINT SESSION,
TRUMP SUPPORTERS BEGIN THEIR
ASSAULT ON OUR CAPITAL.
RADIOCOMMUNICATION'S FROM THE
METROPOLITAN POLICE DEPARTMENT
HIGHLIGHT HOW DARING AND
FOLLOWING PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
SPEECH,
TRUMP SUPPORTERS DESCENDED ON
THE CAPITAL AND BECAME
INCREASINGLY VIOLENT. WHAT YOU
ARE ABOUT TO HEAR HAS NOT BEEN
MADE PUBLIC BEFORE.
&gt;&gt; -- CAPITOL INJURY.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE COMING AROUND FROM THE
SOUTH SIDE.
&gt;&gt; BE ADVISED --
&gt;&gt; WE WILL BE ADVISED. YOU HAVE
A GROUP OF ABOUT 50 CHARGING UP
THE HILL ON THE LEFT FRONT. JUST
NORTH OF THE STAIRS. THEY ARE
PUSHING THE WALL DOWN.
&gt;&gt; THEY ARE THROWING METAL
POLES. --
DSO, GET UP HERE!
&gt;&gt; WE ARE 30 SECONDS OUT. WE
NEED SOME REINFORCEMENT APPEAR
NOW.
&gt;&gt; THEY ARE STARTING TO PULL THE
GATES DOWN.
THERE ARE 50, DSO! IT UP HERE!
&gt;&gt; WE ARE HERE, WE ARE HERE. WE
ARE HERE.
&gt;&gt; WE JUST HAD AN EXPLOSION. I
DON'T KNOW IF THEY ARE FIREWORKS
OR WHAT BUT THERE STARTING TO --
SPIN AFTER ATTEMPTING --
&gt;&gt;&gt;
AFTER ATTEMPTING TO DISMANTLE
THE OUTERMOST PERIMETER, THE
RIOTERS DID EVERYTHING IN THEIR
POWER TO STORM PAST THE POLICE
AND INTO THE CAPITOL. THEY
COORDINATED MOVING METAL
BARRICADES. THE POLICE WERE
USING THEM TO MAINTAIN DISTANCE.
LISTEN TO THE YELLING
, "PULL THEM THIS WAY." AS THEY
GRAB THE BARRIERS AND ATTACK
OFFICERS TRYING TO HOLD THE
LINE.
&gt;&gt; POLE! PULL THEM THIS WAY!
PULL THE BARRIERS!
&gt;&gt; --
OH, OH, OH, OH, NO, NO, NO, NO!
NO! NO! NO! NO!
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; AT ABOUT
1:10 AND 1:20 3 PM,
RESPECTIVELY, CAPITOL POLICE
SEND OUT THE FIRST EVACUATION
ALERT OF THE DAY. THEY TOLD
PEOPLE TO EVACUATE THE MADISON
BUILDING AND THE CANNON BUILDING
RESPECTIVELY.
SHORTLY AFTER, AT 1:40 5 PM,
TRUMP SUPPORTERS SURGED PAST
CAPITOL POLICE, PROTECTING THE
CAPITAL'S CAPITOL'S
WEST STEPS, THE SIDE FACING THE
WHITE HOUSE. IN ANOTHER
RADIOCOMMUNICATION BETWEEN
METROPOLITAN POLICE OFFICERS,
YOU CAN HEAR AN OFFICER DECLARE
THAT THERE IS A RIOT AT THE
CAPITOL AT 1:40 9 PM.
&gt;&gt; -- 50 WE ARE GOING TO GIVE
RIGHT WARNINGS! WE ARE GOING TO
GIVE RIOT WARNINGS. THIS IS NOW
OFFICIALLY A RIOT.
&gt;&gt; -- DECLARING A RIOT.
&gt;&gt; THE NEXT VIDEO. AS WELL AS
SEVERAL VIDEOS THAT FOLLOW HAVE
A MODEL OF THE CAPITOL COMPLEX.
THE VIDEO IS FROM THE WEST FRONT
OF THE CAPITOL ON THE SENATE
SIDE, THE SIDE FACING THE WHITE
HOUSE. WATCH THE RED DOT WHICH
MOVES UP THE LOWER STEPS OF THE
CAPITAL TOO CAPITOL INDICATING
THE APPROXIMATE LOCATION OF THE
RIOTERS AS THEY SEARCH PAST THE
POLICE.
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; WHILE THE MOB THAT DONALD
TRUMP SENT TO STOP THE
CERTIFICATION CAME CLOSER AND
CLOSER TO BREACHING THE CAPITOL,
JUST ONE FLOOR BELOW WHERE WE
ARE NOW, VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
CONTINUED TO PRESIDE OVER THE
SESSION IN THE SENATE CHAMBER
ABOVE. AT ABOUT 2:12 PM, SECRET
SERVICE QUICKLY AND SUDDENLY
EVACUATED VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
FROM THE SENATE FLOOR. HERE IS
THE IMMEDIATE REACTION TO THAT
EVACUATION.
&gt;&gt; WELL THEY JUST CUT OUT, IT
LOOKS LIKE --
&gt;&gt; IT FEELS LIKE THEY JUST TOOK
MIKE PENCE OUT RATHER QUICKLY.
&gt;&gt; THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT JUST
HAPPENED THERE. THEY USHERED
MIKE PENCE OUT, MOVED HIM FAST
AND I SAW THE MOTIONS, TOO.
&gt;&gt; WHILE THE VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE WAS BEING EVACUATED FROM
THE SENATE CHAMBER, WRITERS WERE
AT THAT TIME BREAKING INTO THE
CAPITOL. THIS NEXT VIDEO SHOWS
THEIR APPROACH AND THE INITIAL
BREACH OF THE CAPITOL COMPLEX.
REMEMBER TO WATCH THE RED DOT
WHICH BROKE
-- BEING TRACKING THROUGHOUT
THIS INCIDENT.
&gt;&gt; --
WE NEED JUSTICE! WE NEED
JUSTICE!
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; GO! GO! GO! GO! GO!
&gt;&gt; KILL HIM! KILL HIM!
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; NOW WE ARE GOING TO SHOW YOU,
THROUGH SECURITY FOOTAGE THAT
HAS NOT BEEN MADE PUBLIC BEFORE,
WHAT THAT SAME BREACH LOOKED
LIKE FROM THE INSIDE. NOW,
BECAUSE THIS IS SECURITY
FOOTAGE, THERE IS NO SOUND.
NOTE AS THE VIDEO BEGINS WE ARE
SEEING THE INSIDE VIEW AS THE
MOB APPROACHES FROM OUTSIDE AND
BEATS THE WINDOWS AND DOORS. YOU
CAN SEE THAT THE RIOTERS FIRST
BREAK THE WINDOW WITH THE WOODEN
BEAM YOU SAW PREVIOUSLY AND A
LOAN POLICE OFFICER INSIDE
RESPONSE AND BEGINS TO SPRAY THE
FIRST MAN WHO ENTERS BUT IS
QUICKLY OVERWHELMED.
I WANT YOU TO PAY ATTENTION TO
THE FIRST GROUP OF ASSAILANTS AS
THEY BREAK INTO THE BUILDING.
THE SECOND MAN THROUGH THE
WINDOW IS WEARING FULL TACTICAL
BODY ARMOR. HE IS CARRYING A
BASEBALL BAT. OTHERS ARE
CARRYING RIOT SHIELDS. AMONG
THIS GROUP ARE MEMBERS OF THE
PROUD BOYS, SOME OF WHOM LIKE
DOMINIC ZOLA WHO WAS RECENTLY
INDICTED ON FEDERAL CONSPIRACY
CHARGES WE WILL DISCUSS LATER.
YOU CAN WATCH WHERE THEY ARE
COMING ON OUR MODEL AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; WHEN I FIRST SAW THIS MODEL
THAT WAS CREATED FOR THIS
, I THOUGHT BACK TO SEPTEMBER
11. I KNOW A LOT OF YOU WERE
HERE. SOME OF YOU MIGHT HAVE
BEEN MEMBERS ON THE HOUSE SIDE.
I WAS ALSO HERE ON SEPTEMBER 11.
I WAS A STAFFER AT THAT TIME. MY
OFFICE WAS ON THE WEST FRONT OF
THE CAPITOL. I WORKED IN THE
CAPITOL AND I WAS ON THE HOUSE
SIDE. THIS YEAR IS 20 YEARS
SINCE THE ATTACKS OF SEPTEMBER
11. ALMOST EVERY DAY, I REMEMBER
THAT 44 AMERICANS GAVE THEIR
LIVES TO STOP
THE PLANE THAT WAS HEADED TO
THIS CAPITOL BUILDING. I THANK
THEM EVERY DAY FOR SAVING MY
LIFE AND THE LIFE OF SO MANY
OTHERS. THOSE AMERICANS
SACRIFICED THEIR LIVES FOR LOVE
OF COUNTRY, HONOR, DUTY, ALL THE
THINGS THAT AMERICA MEANS.
THE CAPITOL STANDS BECAUSE OF
PEOPLE LIKE THAT. THIS
WAS CONCEIVED BY OUR FOUNDING
FATHERS, WAS BUILT BY SAVED
SLAVES AND REMAINS
BECAUSE OF THE SACRIFICE OF MEN
AND WOMEN AROUND THE WORLD AND
WHEN I THINK OF THAT AND I THINK
OF THESE INSURGENTS, THESE
IMAGES INCITED BY OUR OWN
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
ATTACKING THIS CAPITOL TO STOP
THE CERTIFICATION OF A
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION, OUR
DEMOCRACY, OUR REPUBLIC,
THE SAME TIME THAT THAT BREACH
ON THIS CAPITOL BUILDING
OCCURRED AT APPROXIMATELY 2:13
P.M., JUST ONE FLOOR UP, WHILE
SENATOR LANGFORD WAS SPEAKING ON
THE SENATE FLOOR, SENATOR
GRASSLEY WHO HAD TAKEN OVER FOR
VICE PRESIDENT PENCE CALLED AN
UNSCHEDULED IMMEDIATE RECESS OF
THE SENATE. A SENATE EIGHT
APPROACHED SENATOR LANGFORD AND
INFORMED HIM THE CAPITOL HAD
BEEN BREACHED. SENATOR GRASSLEY
IS IMMEDIATELY ESCORTED OUT OF
THE SENATE CHAMBER.
&gt;&gt; -- THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; NOW WHILE THIS WAS GOING ON,
OFFICER EUGENE GOODMAN RESPONDED
TO THE INITIAL BREACH. YOU ALL
MAY HAVE SEEN FOOTAGE OF OFFICER
GOODMAN PREVIOUSLY BUT THERE IS
MORE TO HIS HEROIC STORY. IN
THIS SECURITY FOOTAGE, YOU CAN
SEE OFFICER GOODMAN RUNNING TO
RESPOND TO THE INITIAL BREACH.
&gt;&gt; OFFICER GOODMAN PASSES
SENATOR MITT ROMNEY AND DIRECTS
HIM TO TURN AROUND IN ORDER TO
GET TO SAFETY.
ON THE FIRST FLOOR, JUST BENEATH
THEM, THE MOB HAD ALREADY
STARTED TO SEARCH FOR THE SENATE
CHAMBER. OFFICER GOODMAN MADE
HIS WAY DOWN TO THE FIRST FLOOR
WHERE HE ENCOUNTERED THE SAME
INSURRECTIONIST WE JUST SAW
WATCH
BREACH THE CAPITAL. IN THIS
VIDEO, WE CAN SEE THE RIOTERS
SURGED TOWARD OFFICER GOODMAN.
RECALL THAT THE
WRITERS ARE IN RED AND OFFICER
GOODMAN IN THIS MODEL IS IN
BLUE. WATCH OFFICER GOODMAN WHO
BACKS UP THE STAIRS.
&gt;&gt; HEY, YOU WORK FOR US!
&gt;&gt; WE WILL DO IT. WE WILL DO IT!
&gt;&gt; HEY! HEY!
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; HEY, --
&gt;&gt; YO! YO!
&gt;&gt; THESE PEOPLE ARE NOT WORTH
IT!
&gt;&gt; HEY --
&gt;&gt;
ALTHOUGH THEY WERE SHOUTING THAT
THEY DID NOT HAVE ANY WEAPONS,
WE KNOW FROM THE EARLIER VIDEO
THAT THAT IS NOT TRUE. THE
SECOND ASSAILANT
THROUGH THE BREACH WAS THE ONE
CARRYING A METAL BASEBALL BAT.
WE KNOW THERE WERE OTHER WEAPONS
THERE THAT DAY. DID YOU HEAR THE
OTHER SHOTS? WE ARE HERE FOR
YOU! HE IS ONE PERSON, WE ARE
THOUSANDS. AND WHERE DO THEY
COUNT THE VOTES? THEY WERE
COMING AT THE URGING OF DONALD
TRUMP TO KEEP CONGRESS, A
SEPARATE BRANCH OF GOVERNMENT,
FROM CERTIFYING THE RESULTS OF A
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION. AS THE
RIOTERS REACHED
THE TOP OF THE STAIRS, THEY WERE
WITHIN 100 FEET OF WHERE THE
VICE PRESIDENT WAS SHELTERING
WITH HIS FAMILY. AND THEY WERE
JUST FEET AWAY FROM ONE OF THE
DOORS TO THIS CHAMBER. WHERE
MANY OF YOU REMAINED AT THAT
TIME. I ALSO WANT TO SHOW YOU A
DIFFERENT ANGLE FROM THE
SECURITY FOOTAGE OF OFFICER
GOODMAN'S ACTS. THIS VIDEO IS ON
THE SECOND FLOOR OF THE SENATE
WING OF THE CAPITOL. THE RED DOT
, AS YOU RECALL, REPRESENTS THE
INSURRECTIONISTS
. THE BLUE DOT IS OFFICER
GOODMAN WHO LED THE MOB AWAY
FROM THE CHAMBER JUST MINUTES
EARLIER.
&gt;&gt; ON THE LEFT-HAND SIDE OF THE
VIDEO JUST INSIDE THE HOLLOW IS
THE DOORWAY TO THE SENATE
CHAMBER. WATCH HOW OFFICER
GOODMAN PROVOKES THE RIOTERS AND
PURPOSEFULLY DRAWS THEM AWAY
FROM THE DOOR TO THE SENATE
CHAMBER AND TOWARDS THE OTHER
OFFICERS WAITING DOWN THE HALL.
THE WRITER SEEN CARRYING -- THE
RIOTER
SEEN CARRYING A BASEBALL THAT IS
THE SAME ONE BREACHING A WINDOW
ON THE VIDEO BEFORE. WHILE ALL
OF THIS WAS GOING ON, VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE WAS STILL IN THE
ROOM NEAR THE SENATE CHAMBER. IT
WAS NOT UNTIL 2:26 THAT HE WAS
EVACUATED TO A SECURE LOCATION.
THIS NEXT SECURITY VIDEO SHOWS
THAT EVACUATION.
HIS MOVEMENTS ARE DEPICTED BY
THE ORANGE DOT IN OUR MODEL. THE
RED AND BLUE DOTS REPRESENT THE
LOCATION WHERE THE MOB AND
OFFICER GOODMAN WERE AND WHERE
OFFICER GOODMAN LED THE MOB AWAY
FROM THE CHAMBER MOMENTS AGO.
YOU CAN SEE VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
AND HIS FAMILY QUICKLY MOVE DOWN
THE STAIRS. THE VICE PRESIDENT
TURNS AROUND BRIEFLY AS HE IS
HEADED DOWN. AS PENCE WAS BEING
EVACUATED, RIOTERS STARTED TO
SPREAD THROUGHOUT THE CAPITAL.
THOSE INSIDE HELPED OTHER
RIOTERS BREAK IN THROUGH DOORS
IN SEVERAL LOCATIONS AROUND THE
ENTIRE BUILDING AND THE MOB WAS
LOOKING FOR VICE PRESIDENT PENCE
BECAUSE OF HIS PATRIOTISM.
BECAUSE THE VICE PRESIDENT HAD
REFUSED TO DO WHAT THE PRESIDENT
DEMAND AND OVERTURN THE ELECTION
RESULTS. DURING THE ASSAULT ON
THE CAPITAL, EXTREMISTS
REPORTEDLY COORDINATED ONLINE
AND DISCUSSED HOW THEY WOULD
HUNT DOWN THE VICE PRESIDENT.
JOURNALISTS IN THE CAPITAL
REPORTED THEY HEARD RIOTERS SAY
THEY WERE LOOKING FOR PENCE IN
ORDER TO EXECUTE HIM. TRUMP
SUPPORTERS HAD ERECTED A GALLOWS
ON THE LAWN IN FRONT OF THE
CAPITOL BUILDING.
ANOTHER GROUP OF RIOTERS
CHANTED, "HANG MIKE PENCE
" AS THEY STOOD IN THE OPEN DOOR
OF THE CAPITOL BUILDING. YOU CAN
HEAR THE SECURITY ALARM FROM THE
DOOR IN THE BACKGROUND AND YOU
CAN HEAR THE MOB CALLING FOR THE
DEATH OF THE VICE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES.
&gt;&gt; HANG MIKE PENCE!
HANG MIKE PENCE! HANG MIKE
PENCE! HANG MIKE PENCE!
&gt;&gt;
THIS WAS NOT AN ISOLATED AREA OR
INCIDENT WHERE THAT WAS BEING
TOLD. WEAR THAT WAS BEING SAID.
IT WAS GOING ON EVERYWHERE.
HERE'S ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF THE
CROWD OUTSIDE YELLING, BRING OUT
PENCE. BRING HIM OUT.
&gt;&gt; BRING HIM OUT! BRING HIM OUT!
&gt;&gt; BRING OUT PENCE.
&gt;&gt; BRING HIM OUT!
&gt;&gt; BRING HIM OUT.
&gt;&gt; BRING OUT PENCE!
&gt;&gt; AFTER PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD
PRIMED HIS FOLLOWERS FOR MONTHS
AND INFLAMED THE RALLY GOERS
THAT MORNING, IT IS NO WONDER
THAT THE VICE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES WAS THE TARGET OF
THEIR WRATH. AFTER PENCE REFUSED
TO OVERTURN THE ELECTION RESULTS
. LISTEN TO THIS MAN EXPLAINED.
&gt;&gt; WELL, CONGRESS COWARDS HID IN
THEIR INSIDE AND
EXPORTED AWAY
BECAUSE OF THE PEOPLE. THEY ARE
COWARDS AND CANNOT DO THE RIGHT
THING. PENCE, LIKE THOSE IS A
TOTAL TREASONOUS PIG AND HIS
NAME WILL BE MUD FOREVER. NOW,
THE REAL BATTLE BEGINS. AND IT
LOOKS LIKE THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
ARE VERY PEST. SO GOOD LUCK WITH
THAT. PIECE OUT.
&gt;&gt; PEACE OUT. SEVERAL
INSURRECTIONISTS DESCRIBED WHAT
THEY
HAD PLANNED TO DO IF THEY
ENCOUNTERED THE VICE PRESIDENT
OR OTHER LAWMAKERS. ONE OF THEM,
DOMNIC PIZOLA,  CAME TO THE
CAPITOL WITH DEADLY INTENTIONS.
HE COMMANDEERED A CAPITOL
POLICE SHIELD, USED IT TO SMASH
A GLASS WINDOW, ENTER THE
CAPITOL AND PAVE THE WAY FOR
DOZENS OF INSURRECTIONISTS. AS
YOU RECALL FROM AN EARLIER
VIDEO, HE WAS ONE OF THE FIRST
WAVE OF WRITERS TO BREACH THE
BUILDING. ON THE LEFT, YOU CAN
SEE A SCREENSHOT FROM THE VIDEO
OF THE BREAK IN WE SHOWED
EARLIER AND ON THE RIGHT, YOU
CAN SEE PIZOLA, IN THE MOB,
CHASE CAPITAL CAPITAL POLICE
OFFICER GOODMAN.
BEEN CHARGED WITH EIGHT CRIMES
FOR HIS CONDUCT RELATED TO
JANUARY 6. ACCORDING TO AN
AFFIDAVIT SUBMITTED TO THE
COURT, THE GROUP THAT WAS WITH
HIM DURING THE SACK OF THE
CAPITAL CONFIRMED THEY WERE OUT
TO MURDER "ANYONE THEY GOT THEIR
HANDS ON." HERE IS WHAT THE FBI
SAID. AND I QUOTE, "OTHER
MEMBERS OF THE GROUP TALKED
ABOUT THINGS THEY HAD DONE THAT
DAY. THEY SAID THAT ANYONE THEY
GOT THEIR HANDS ON, THEY WOULD
HAVE KILLED. INCLUDING NANCY
PELOSI AND THEY WOULD HAVE
KILLED VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE
IF GIVEN THE CHANCE." THEY WERE
TALKING ABOUT ASSASSINATING THE
VICE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES.
DURING THE COURSE OF THE ATTACK,
THE VICE PRESIDENT NEVER LEFT
THE CAPITAL.
CAPITOL. HE REMAINED LOCKED DOWN
WITH HIS FAMILY, WITH HIS FAMILY
INSIDE THE BUILDING. REMEMBER
THAT. AS YOU THINK ABOUT THESE
IMAGES AND THE SOUNDS OF THE
ATTACK. THE VICE PRESIDENT, OUR
SECOND-IN-COMMAND WAS ALWAYS AT
THE CENTER OF IT. VICE PRESIDENT
PENCE WAS THREATENED WITH DEATH
BY THE PRESIDENT'S SUPPORTERS
BECAUSE HE REJECTED PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S DEMAND THAT HE OVERTURN
THE ELECTION. THE MOB ALSO WENT
AFTER SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE WHO
ALONGSIDE THE RESIDENT
VICE PRESIDENT WAS PRESIDING
OVER THE JOINT SESSION OF THE
CERTIFICATION IN THE HOUSE
CHAMBER. THE CHILLING EVIDENCE
SHOWS THAT ON JANUARY 6, ARMED
AND ORGANIZED INSURRECTIONISTS
TRAINED THEIR SIGHTS ON
SPEAKER PELOSI. THEY SOUGHT OUT
THE SPEAKER ON THE FLOOR AND IN
HER OFFICE, PUBLICLY DECLARED
THEIR INTENT TO HARM OR KILL
HER, RANSACKED HER OFFICE AND
TERRORIZED HER STUFF. AND THEY
DID IT BECAUSE DONALD TRUMP SENT
THEM ON THIS MISSION. AS THE
INSURRECTIONISTS GOT CLOSER,
CAPITOL POLICE RUSHED THE
SPEAKER FROM THE HOUSE FLOOR AT
2:15 P.M., MINUTES AFTER THE
CAPITOL WAS FIRST BREACHED. THEY
RECOGNIZED IMMEDIATELY THAT SHE
WAS IN DANGER.
THE SPEAKER IS NOT JUST RUSHED
FROM THE FLOOR. THE CAPITOL
POLICE DEEMED THE THREAT SO
DANGEROUS THAT THEY EVACUATED
HER ENTIRELY FROM THE CAPITOL
COMPLEX. THEY RUSHED HER TO A
SECURE OFF-SITE LOCATION. THE
INSURRECTIONISTS
INTENT TO MURDER THE SPEAKER OF
THE HOUSE IS WELL DOCUMENTED IN
CHARGING DOCUMENTS THAT ARE NOW
AVAILABLE. WE KNOW FROM THE
RIOTERS THEMSELVES THAT IF THEY
HAVE
HAD FOUND SPEAKER PELOSI, THEY
WOULD HAVE KILLED HER. I HAVE
ALREADY DISCUSSED PROUD BOYS
MEMBER DOMINIC PIZOLA WHO HAS
SINCE BEEN CHARGED WITH EIGHT
FEDERAL CRIMES HIS CONDUCT ON
JANUARY 6. AS YOU WILL RECALL,
ACCORDING TO THE FBI AFFIDAVIT,
SUBMITTED TO THE COURT, THE
GROUP HE ATTACKED THE CAPITAL
WITH CONFIRMED THAT "ANYONE THEY
GOT THEIR HANDS ON, THEY WOULD
HAVE KILLED." "INCLUDING NANCY
PELOSI. "WILLIAM CALHOUN, A
LAWYER FROM GEORGIA ALSO
PARTICIPATED IN THE
INSURRECTION THAT DAY AND HE,
TOO HAS BEEN CHARGED FOR HIS
ACTIONS. THIS INSURRECTIONIST
DETAILED HIS CRIMINAL ACTIVITY
AT THE CAPITOL ONLINE. CALHOUN
WROTE ABOUT HIS INVOLVEMENT ON
HIS OWN FACEBOOK PAGE. HERE'S
THE POST. CALHOUN STATED, "AND
GET THIS, THE FIRST OF US WHO
GOT UPSTAIRS KICKED IN NANCY
PELOSI'S OFFICE DOOR AND PUSHED
DOWN THE HALLS TOWARD HER INNER
SANCTUM. THE MOB HOWLING WITH
RAGE, CRAZY NANCY
PROBABLY WOULD HAVE BEEN TORN
INTO LITTLE PIECES BUT SHE WAS
NOWHERE TO BE SEEN." CRAZY
NANCY. THAT IS TRUMP'S NICKNAME
FOR THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE.
THEN HE EXPLAINS THAT HE AND HIS
GROUP ONLY ABANDONED THEIR CLAIM
TO THE SPEAKER'S OFFICE ONE "A
S.W.A.T. TEAM SHOWED UP" HE
WRITES, "THEN A S.W.A.T. TEAM
SHOWED AND WE RETREATED BACK TO
THE ROTUNDA AND CONTINUED OUR
HOSTILE TAKEOVER OF THE CAPITOL
BUILDING.
" RETREATED. HOSTILE TAKEOVER.
HE IS USING MILITARY TERMS FOR
THIS ATTACK. THE MOB CONTINUED
TO LOOK FOR SPEAKER PELOSI
THROUGHOUT THE TIME THAT THEY
OCCUPIED THE CAPITAL INCLUDING
INVADING HER OFFICES. WATCH NOW
HOW THE MOB SEARCHES
FOR SPEAKER PELOSI'S OFFICE
WHICH IS MARKED IN RED. THE
HOUSE CHAMBER IT SELF.
&gt;&gt; WHERE ARE YOU, NANCY? WE ARE
LOOKING FOR YOU!
&gt;&gt; NANCY! OH, NANCY! NANCY!
&gt;&gt;
DURING THE SIEGE, THE SPEAKER
OFFICE STAFF TO COVER IN HER
OFFICE. HIDING IN FEAR FOR THEIR
LIVES FOR HOURS. WRITERS BROKEN
AND RANSACKED HER OFFICE.
RIOTERS BROKE IN AND RANSACKED
HER OFFICE.
THE STAFF RETREATED INTO AN
INTERIOR ROOM. EIGHT OF THEM
GATHERED IN A CONFERENCE ROOM.
ABOUT THE SAME TIME, CAPITOL
POLICE ANNOUNCED THE CAPITAL HAD
BEEN BREACHED. SPEAKER PELOSI'S
STAFF HEEDED THE CALL TO SHELTER
IN PLACE. ON OUR MODEL YOU CAN
SEE THE RIOTERS IN THE ROTUNDA
IN RED AND THE SPEAKER'S OFFICE.
THIS IS A SECURITY VIDEO SO
THERE IS NO SOUND.
AS YOU CAN SEE HERE, THE STAFF
MOVES FROM THEIR OFFICES,
THROUGH THE HALLS AND THEN
ENTERS A DOOR ON THE RIGHT-HAND
SIDE. THAT IS THE OUTER DOOR OF
A CONFERENCE ROOM WHICH ALSO HAS
AN INNER DOOR THAT THEY
BARRICADED WITH FURNITURE. THE
STAFF THEN HID UNDER A
CONFERENCE ROOM TABLE IN THAT IN
A ROOM. IN HER ROOM. AN ERROR --
INNER
ROOM. THIS IS THE STAFF
BARRICADING THEMSELVES INSIDE
THE INNER OFFICE. AFTER SEVEN
MINUTES OF THEM BARRICADING
THEMSELVES AND THE LAST
STAFFER ENTERING THE DOOR ON THE
RIGHT, A GROUP OF RIOTERS
ENTERED THE HALLWAY OUTSIDE.
ONCE INSIDE, THE RIOTERS HAD
FREE REIGN
IN THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE'S
OFFICES. IN THIS SECURITY VIDEO,
PAY ATTENTION TO THE DOOR THAT
WE SAW THOSE STAFFERS LEADING
INTO AND GOING INTO. ONE OF THE
RIOTERS YOU CAN SEE IS THROWING
-- AGAINST THE DOOR THREE TIMES
UNTIL HE BREAKS OPEN THE
OUTER DOOR. LUCKILY WHEN FACED
WITH THE INNER DOOR, HE MOVES
ON. ANOTHER RIOTER LATER TRIED,
UNSUCCESSFULLY TO BREAK THROUGH
THAT INNER DOOR. AT THIS POINT,
THE MOB HAD ALREADY BROKEN INTO
THE SPEAKER'S FORMAL CONFERENCE
ROOM THAT IS IN THE BACK OF THE
HALL AT THE TOP OF THE VIDEO. I
WANT TO PLAY SOME AUDIO THAT WE
HAVE OF THE SPEAKER'S STAFF WITH
THE RIOTERS OF THE DOOR THAT
DAY. YOU CAN HEAR THE TERROR IN
THEIR VOICE AS THEY DESCRIBE
WHAT IS HAPPENING TO THEM. AS
THEY ARE BARRICADED IN THE
CONFERENCE ROOM. PLEASE, LISTEN
CAREFULLY. BECAUSE THE STAFFERS
WHISPERING INTO A PHONE AS HE
HIDES FROM THE RIOTERS OUTSIDE
THE DOOR.
&gt;&gt;
WE NEED CAPITOL POLICE. THEY ARE
COMING DOWN THE HALL. THEY ARE
OPENING DOORS TRYING TO FIND
HER.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN HEAR THE POUNDING IN
THE BACKGROUND AS THAT STAFFER
IS SPEAKING. ONE OF THOSE
STAFFERS EXPLAINED LATER THAT
THEY COULD HEAR THE MOB GOING
THROUGH HER OFFICES, BREAKING
DOWN THE DOOR AND YELLING, WHERE
ARE YOU, NANCY." THE MOB ALSO
PILLAGED AND VANDALIZED
THE SPEAKER'S OFFICE AND
DOCUMENTED THEIR CRIMES ON
SOCIAL MEDIA. THEY STOLE
OBJECTS. DESECRATED THE OFFICE
OF THE SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED
STATES. AS YOU CAN SEE IN THESE
PHOTOS, RIOTERS BROKE DOWN A
DOOR. THEY ALSO SHATTERED A
MIRROR.
AT 2:50 P.M., SEVERAL RIOTERS
INCLUDING RICHARD BARNETT
ENTERED SPEAKER PELOSI'S OFFICE.
THE WORLD IS ALL
, NOW, TOO FAMILIAR WITH THE
IMAGES FROM THESE SLIDES. IF YOU
LOOK CLOSELY, HOWEVER AT THE NOW
INFAMOUS PICTURES OF BARNETT
WITH HIS FEET ON THE DESK, YOU
MIGHT SEE SOMETHING THAT YOU DID
NOT NOTICE PREVIOUSLY. HERE IS A
BETTER LOOK. AS THIS PHOTO
HIGHLIGHTS, HE IS CARRYING A
STUN GUN TUCKED INTO HIS
WAISTBAND. THE FBI IDENTIFIED
THE DEVICE AS A 950,000 VOTE
VAULT
STUN GUN WALKING STICK. THE
WEAPON COULD HAVE CAUSED SERIOUS
PAIN AND INCAPACITATED ANYONE
BARNETT HAD USED IT AGAINST.
RICHARD BARNETT BRAGGED ABOUT
HIS ACTIONS. HE WAS PROUD OF THE
WAY HE DESECRATED THE SPEAKER OF
THE HOUSE'S OFFICE. HE LEFT A
NOTE. "WE WILL NOT BACK DOWN.
BLOCK HERE IS BARNETT IN HIS OWN
WORDS.
&gt;&gt; HOW DO YOU GET IT?
&gt;&gt; I DIDN'T STEAL IT. I COULDN'T
SEE.
SO I FIGURED, WELL, I'M IN HER
OFFICE, I HAVE BLOOD IN HER
OFFICE, I PUT A QUARTER ON THE
DESK EVEN THOUGH SHE WORK IT
WORTH IT AND I LEFT A NOTE ON
HER DESK THAT SAYS NANCY, --
&gt;&gt;
TRUMP'S MOB RANSACKED THE
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE'S OFFICE.
THEY TERRORIZED HER STAFF.
AGAIN, THAT IS A MOB THAT WAS
SENT BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES TO STOP THE
CERTIFICATION OF AN ELECTION.
THE VICE PRESIDENT, THE SPEAKER
OF THE HOUSE, THE FIRST AND
SECOND IN LINE TO THE
PRESIDENCY, WERE PERFORMING
THEIR CONSTITUTIONAL DUTIES,
PRESIDING OVER THE ELECTION
CERTIFICATION AND THEY WERE PUT
IN DANGER BECAUSE PRESIDENT
TRUMP PUT HIS OWN DESIRES, HIS
OWN NEED FOR POWER OVER HIS DUTY
TO THE CONSTITUTION AND OUR
DEMOCRATIC PROCESS. PRESIDENT
TRUMP PUT A TARGET ON THEIR
BACKS AND HIS MOB BROKE INTO THE
CAPITAL TO HUNT THEM DOWN.
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; THEY BREACHED THE CAPITOL.
THEY HAVE BREACHED THE CAPITOL!
THEY ARE BEHIND THE LINES?
&gt;&gt; SHORTLY AFTER 2:00 P.M., THE
CAPITOL POLICE AND METROPOLITAN
POLICE WERE OVERWHELMED BY
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S MOB.
PARAMETERS WERE BROKEN. THE
CAPITOL HAD BEEN BREACHED.
THOSE OFFICERS KEPT FIGHTING
BACK FOR HOURS AND HOURS TO HOLD
THE LINE. THEY FOUGHT TO DEFEND
THE CAPITOL BUILDING AND ALL OF
US WITHIN IT. BUT THEY WEREN'T
THERE JUST TO PROTECT US. AND
THEY DID, AND OUR STAFF AND THE
CUSTODIAL STAFF AND ALL THE
PEOPLE WHO WORK SO HARD IN THIS
BUILDING. THEY WERE THERE TO
PROTECT THE VOTES OF THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT WERE BEING
COUNTED THAT DAY. I WILL SHOW
YOU MORE LATER ABOUT WHAT THAT
DAY WAS LIKE FOR THOSE BRAVE
OFFICERS. BUT FIRST, LET'S GO
BACK TO WHAT WAS HAPPENING WHERE
MANAGER PLASKETT LEFT OFF IN THE
HOUSE
CHAMBER. RIOTERS WHO HAD ENTERED
THE BUILDING THROUGH THE SENATE
QUICKLY SPREAD OUT THROUGH THE
CAPITOL, MANY HEADED TOWARD THE
HOUSE AND CHAMBERS. AFTER
SPEAKER PELOSI WAS USHERED OUT,
CHAIRMAN McGOVERN WAS PRESIDING
IN THE HOUSE. ATTEMPTING TO KEEP
THE COUNTY PROCESS GOING. ON OUR
PHONES, MEMBERS WERE RECEIVING
SECURITY UPDATES AND WATCHING
SOCIAL MEDIA TO SEE THE HORROR
THAT WAS GOING ON OUTSIDE. WE
NEVER THOUGHT IT WOULD MAKE ITS
WAY IN. BY 2:20 5 PM, RIOTERS
WHO WERE ALREADY IN THE BUILDING
OPENED THE SIDE DOOR TO THE
CAPITOL ROTUNDA TO LET MORE OF
THE MOB IN. THEY QUICKLY FLOODED
THROUGH THE DOORS, OVERWHELMING
OFFICERS. THIS IS NEW SECURITY
FOOTAGE OF THOSE DOORS AND, AS
BEFORE, THE MOB IS IDENTIFIED
WITH THE RED DOT ON THE MODEL OF
THE CAPITOL. IF YOU LOOK
CLOSELY, YOU WILL SEE THE FIRST
PERSON THROUGH THE DOOR THAT IS
HOLDING THE TRUMP FLAG.
&gt;&gt;
AT THE SAME TIME, JUST ONE FLOOR
BELOW, THE MOB VIOLENTLY PUSHED
THROUGH A LINE OF CAPITOL POLICE
OFFICERS AND OVERTOOK THE AREA.
WE ALL KNOW THAT AREA IN THE
CAPITAL AS THE CRYPT. THIS IS
DIRECTLY BENEATH THE ROTUNDA AT
THE CENTER OF THE CAPITAL.
CAPITOL.
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; INSIDE THE HOUSE CHAMBER, A
SECURITY OFFICER
SUSPENDED THE FLOOR DEBATE TO
UPDATE MEMBERS.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE -- IN THE ROTUNDA.
PLEASE
STANDBY. UNDER YOUR SEATS,
PLEASE, GRAB A MASK, PROCEED TO
YOUR LEFT AND BE PREPARED TO
DONE YOUR MASK IN THE EVENT THAT
--
&gt;&gt; WE WERE TOLD THERE WERE TWO
GAS MASKS UNDERNEATH OUR SEATS
AND BE PREPARED TO GRAB THEM.
DETERMINED TO KEEP THE
COUNT GOING, CHAIRMAN McGOVERN
CALLED THE HOUSE BACK INTO
SESSION BUT ONLY FOUR MINUTES
LATER, AT 2:30 P.M., THE HOUSE
ABRUPTLY RECESSED. A NEW
SECURITY AMOUNT SPENT WAS MADE.
ANNOUNCEMENT WAS MADE.
&gt;&gt; GET DOWN UNDER YOUR CHAIRS IF
SO WE HAVE FOLKS ENTERING THE
ROTUNDA AND COMING DOWN THIS WAY
SO WE WILL UPDATE YOU AS SOON AS
WE CAN BUT BE PREPARED. STAY
CALM.
&gt;&gt; AS A HEARD THAT ANNOUNCEMENT
ON THE FLOOR I SAW THE NEW HOUSE
CHAPLAIN ON JUST HER FOURTH J
DAY ON THE JOB WALK TO THE
PODIUM, UNANNOUNCED AND AMIDST
THE CHAOS, SHE STARTED TO RECITE
A PRAYER FOR PEACE. UNCERTAIN
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN NEXT, I SENT A
TEXT MESSAGE TO MY WIFE.
"I LOVE YOU AND THE BABIES.
PLEASE, HUG THEM FOR ME." I
IMAGINE MANY OF YOU SENT A
SIMILAR MESSAGE.
WHAT WE COULD NOT SEE FROM
INSIDE THE CHAMBER WAS THAT
OUTSIDE, THE MOB WAS GROWING
LARGER AND LARGER. AND
APPROACHING OUR DOORS. BUT WE
COULD HEAR THEM. THIS SECURITY
FOOTAGE WAS NOT MADE WITH
SOUND. IT SHOWS A MOB MOVING
TOWARD THE SECOND FLOOR OF THE
HOUSE CHAMBER TO STOP THE
COUNTING OF VOTES.
IN THE BACK OF THE GROUP, YOU
SEE ONE INDIVIDUAL CARRYING A
SIGN. THEY GET WITHIN FOOTSTEPS
OF THE HOUSE DOOR. THE NEXT
VIDEO IS THE VIEWPOINT OF THE
INSURRECTIONISTS. IT BEGINS WITH
THE MOB  AMASSING AND CUT TO
HEAD TO SHOW YOU THEIR SEARCH TO
THE HOUSE DOOR.
&gt;&gt; WE WANT TRUMP! WE WANT TRUMP!
WE WANT TRUMP! WE WANT TRUMP! WE
WANT TRUMP! WE WANT TRUMP! WE
WANT TRUMP!
&gt;&gt; I TOLD YOU THAT -- I WOULD
JUST STOP --
DUDE, DUDE, DUDE, YOU ARE NOT
HELPING, YOU'RE NOT HELPING. --
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
&gt;&gt; -- IT IS TOO LATE FOR THAT.
THEY DON'T LISTEN WITHOUT THIS.
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; THOSE DOORS TO ORIENT YOU AT
HOME ARE THE DOORS OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES
THAT HE WALKS THROUGH WHEN HE OR
SHE GIVES A STATE OF THE UNION
ADDRESS. YOU MAY HAVE HEARD ONE
MAN YELL, "NO VIOLENCE!" AND
ANOTHER RESPONDED, IT IS TOO
LATE FOR THAT. THEY DON'T LISTEN
WITHOUT THAT."
THEY WERE THERE TO STOP THE
CERTIFICATION OF THE ELECTION.
AT THIS POINT, INSIDE THE HOUSE
CHAMBER, WE CAN NOW HEAR THE
POUNDING ON THE DOORS. AT 2:30 5
PM, MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE FLOOR
WORK TOLD AN EVACUATION WAS
SECURED AND IT WAS TIME TO
LEAVE. THIS VIDEO SHOWS MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS EXIT INTO THE SIDES
OF THE PODIUM WHERE WE WOULD GO
THROUGH THE HOUSE LOBBY AND DOWN
THE STAIRS.
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; BECAUSE OF CORONAVIRUS
RESTRICTIONS, CONGRESSIONAL
MEMBERS HAD BEEN WAITING IN THE
GALLERY TO SPEAK
JUST ONE FLOOR ABOVE THE HOUSE
FLOOR. REPRESENTATIVES, STAFF,
JOURNALISTS TO COVER
UNDER THEIR CHAIRS, HELPED EACH
OTHER PUT ON GAS MASKS AND HELD
HANDS AS RIOTERS GATHERED
OUTSIDE.
HERE YOU SEE REPRESENTATIVE CROW
COMFORTING REPRESENTATIVE WILEY.
THE RIOTERS CONTINUED TO
SURROUND THE HOUSE CHANGER,
FLOODING HALLS AND KICKING ON
DOORS AS THEY PASSED THEM. THIS
SECURITY VIDEO SHOWS ASHLI
BABBITT FOLLOWED BY OTHERS IN
THE MOB TURNING THE CORNER
TOWARD THE HOUSE LOBBY DOORS
WHERE THE MEMBERS WERE LEAVING.
&gt;&gt; CHAIRMAN McGOVERN WAS ONE OF
THE LAST MEMBERS TO LEAVE THE
FLOOR. HAS HE LEFT FOR THE HOUSE
LOBBY JUST AFTER 2:40 P.M., HE
WAS SPOTTED BY THE MOB.
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; MINUTES LATER AT 2:40 4 PM,
ASHLI BABBITT ATTEMPTED TO CLIMB
THROUGH A SHATTERED WINDOW INTO
THE HOUSE LOBBY. TO PROTECT THE
MEMBERS IN THE LOBBY, AN OFFICER
DISCHARGED HIS WEAPON. SHE WAS
KILLED. I WANT TO WARN EVERYONE
THAT THE NEXT VIDEO WHICH SHOWS
HER DEATH IS GRAPHIC.
&gt;&gt; --
THERE IS A GUN! THERE IS A GUN!
THERE IS A GUN!
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
OH! NO!
&gt;&gt;
INSIDE THE CHAMBER,
REPRESENTATIVES, STAFF AND
JOURNALISTS REMAINED TRAPPED IN
THE GALLERY. ONE FLOOR ABOVE THE
HOUSE FLOOR, THEY HEARD THE
GUNSHOT MY COLLEAGUE,
REPRESENTATIVE DAN KILDEE
PRODUCED THIS REPORTING.
&gt;&gt; YEAH. --
&gt;&gt; TAKE YOUR PINS OFF.
&gt;&gt; PINS OFF.
&gt;&gt; OUT OF FEAR THEY WOULD BE
SEEN
OR TAKEN BY THE MOB, MY
COLLEAGUES WERE TELLING EACH
OTHER TO TAKE OFF THEIR
CONGRESSIONAL PINS. THE BUZZING
SOUND YOU HEAR IN THE BACKGROUND
OF THE VIDEOS WAS THE SOUND OF
THE GAS MASKS. IT WAS NOT UNTIL
APPROXIMATELY 2:50 P.M. ABOUT
SIX MINUTES AFTER THE SHOOTING,
DOWNSTAIRS, REMAINING MEMBERS OF
THE STAFF AND JOURNALISTS IN THE
GALLERY WERE FINALLY ABLE TO
FLEE.
IN THIS SECURITY FOOTAGE VIDEO,
YOU CAN SEE THEM EXITING. MANY
MEMBERS ARE STILL WEARING THEIR
GAS MASKS. THEY WALKED JUST FEET
AWAY FROM WORK CAPITOL POLICE
ARE HOLDING AN INSURRECTIONIST
AT GUNPOINT. JUST MINUTES
EARLIER, THAT INSURRECTIONIST
HAD TRIED TO OPEN THE GALLERY
DOOR AND THANKFULLY, WAS STOPPED
BY A TACTICAL TEAM.
&gt;&gt; ALTHOUGH MEMBERS WERE BEING
MOVED TO ANOTHER LOCATION, THE
MOB CONTINUED TO FIGHT TO STOP
THE COUNT, TO FIND THE MEMBERS,
TO ENGAGE WITH THE POLICE. THE
BUILDING WAS NOT YET SECURED.
THIS SECURITY VIDEO FROM 2:50 6
PM SHOWS THE MOB IN THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES WING ON THE
SECOND FLOOR
OF THE CAPITAL.
INSURRECTIONIST'S STILL INSIDE
THE BUILDING ARE FIGHTING WITH
POLICE OVERWHELMED AND TRYING TO
GET THEM OUT.
THROUGHOUT THIS PRESENTATION WE
HAVE BEEN CAREFUL NOT TO SHARE
WHERE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WERE
TAKEN ON THE PATHS THEY FOLLOWED
TO GET OUT AND OFF THE FLOORS.
BUT THAT VERY ISSUE WAS UNDER
DISCUSSION BY THE
INSURRECTIONISTS THEMSELVES.
ONE EXAMPLE COMES FROM AN FBI
AFFIDAVIT
WHICH STATED THAT A LEADER OF
THE MILITIA GROUP KNOWN AS THE
OATH KEEPERS RECEIVED MESSAGES
WHILE HE WAS AT THE CAPITAL
CHICK CAPITOL. THEY WERE GIVEN
DIRECTIONS AS TO WHERE THEY
THOUGHT MEMBERS WOULD BE
SHELTERING AND INSTRUCTIONS TO
"TURN ON GAS. STILL THEM AND."
AS YOU KNOW THE THREAT TO THE
SENATE WAS NO LESS THAN THAT OF
THE MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE. THE
MOB APPROACHED
THE SENATE WITH THE SAME
PURPOSE, FULFILLING PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S GOAL OF STOPPING THE
COUNT, DELAYING THE
CERTIFICATION OF THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE VOTES OF THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE. AS YOU HEARD FROM
MANAGER PLASKETT, VICE PRESIDENT
PANTS WAS MOVED AWAY FROM THE
CHAMBER AROUND 2:20 5 PM. BY
THAT TIME, RIOTERS HAD BREACHED
SEVERAL AREAS CLOSE TO THIS
CHAMBER AND WORK FLOODING THE
HALLWAYS JUST OUTSIDE NEARBY.
THE SENATE CHANGER WAS NOT
CHAMBER WAS NOT EVACUATED
. THE MOB HAD BEEN IN THE
BUILDING FOR NEARLY 15 MINUTES.
THIS NEW SECURITY FOOTAGE OF THE
SENATORS AND STAFF LEAVING THE
CHAMBER WILL BE DISPLAYED ON THE
SCREENS. IT IS SILENT.
&gt;&gt; YOU CANNOT SEE IT IN THIS
FOOTAGE BUT QUICK THINKING
SENATE FLOOR STAFF GRABBED AND
PROTECTED THE ELECTORAL BALLOTS
THAT THE MOB WAS AFTER.
THOSE OF YOU WHO WERE HERE THAT
THEY WILL RECALL
THAT ONCE YOU LEFT THE SENATE
FLOOR, YOU MOVED THROUGH A
HALLWAY TO GET TO SAFETY. THAT
HALLWAY WAS NEAR WHERE OFFICER
GOODMAN HAD ENCOUNTERED A MOB
AND LED THEM UPSTAIRS AWAY FROM
THE SENATE CHAMBER. YOU KNOW HOW
CLOSE YOU CAME TO THE MOB. SOME
OF YOU I UNDERSTAND COULD HEAR
THEM. BUT MOST OF THE PUBLIC
DOES NOT KNOW HOW CLOSE THESE
RIOTERS CAME TO YOU.
AS YOU WERE MOVING THROUGH THAT
HALLWAY, I PASTE IT OFF. YOU
WERE JUST 58 STEPS AWAY FROM
WHERE THE MOB WAS AMASSING AND
WHERE POLICE WERE RUSHING TO
STOP THEM. THEY WERE YELLING.
IN THIS SECURITY VIDEO, YOU CAN
SEE HOW THE CAPITOL POLICE
CREATED A LINE AND BLOCKED THE
HALLWAY WITH THEIR BODIES TO
PREVENT RIOTERS AT THE END OF
THE HALL FROM REACHING YOU AND
YOUR STAFF.
&gt;&gt; BECAUSE THIS IS SECURITY
FOOTAGE YOU HAD NOT SEEN BEFORE,
I WANT TO PLAYED AGAIN. I WANTED
TO PLAY IT AGAIN.
AT THE TOP OF THE SCREEN AT THE
OTHER END OF THE HALLWAY WHERE
THE MOB IS AMASSED AND THE
SECURITY OFFICER RUSHING TO
PROTECT YOU.
&gt;&gt; ADDITIONAL SECURITY
FOOTAGE HOLD SHOWS HOW
LEADERSHIP ARE AND THE MEMBERS
OF THE PROTECTIVE DETAIL HAD A
NEAR MISS WITH THE MOB. THEY
CAME WITHIN YARDS OF RIOTERS AND
HAD TO TURN AROUND. HERE IN THIS
NEW VIDEO YOU SEE LEADER SHURMUR
WALKING UP A RAMP. CHUCK SCHUMER
WALKING UP A RAMP, GOING UP THE
RAMP WITH THE DETAIL AND WILL
SOON GO OUT OF VIEW.
SECONDS LATER THE RETURN AND RUN
BACK DOWN THE HALLWAY AND
OFFICERS IMMEDIATELY SHUT THE
DOOR AND USE THEIR BODIES TO
KEEP THEM SAFE. AT 2:45 P.M.,
SHORTLY AFTER BEING USHERED FROM
THE SENATE FLOOR,
INSURRECTIONISTS REACHED THIS
SENATE GALLERY. THE FOLLOWING
VIDEO WAS FILMED BY A NEW YORK
REPORTER.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE HERE!
&gt;&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; WHERE ARE THEY?
&gt;&gt; MINUTES LATER, HE
INSURRECTIONISTS INVADED  AND
DESECRATED THE SENATE FLOOR.
THESE VANDALS SHOUTED AND RIFLED
THROUGH THE DESKS IN THIS ROOM.
THEY TOOK PICTURES OF DOCUMENTS
AND OF THEMSELVES, CELEBRATING
THAT THEY HAD TAKEN OVER THE
FLOOR AND STOPPED THE COUNTING
OF ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTES.
&gt;&gt; LOOK AT THIS.
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; LET'S GET A SNAP OF THAT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
&gt;&gt; HEY, HOW DO I GET DOWN THERE?
&gt;&gt; GO DOWN THE STAIRS.
&gt;&gt; HERE, LOOK.
&gt;&gt; TED CRUZ'S OBJECTION.
&gt;&gt; LOOK, OBJECTION TO COUNTING
THE VOTES OF
ARIZONA.
&gt;&gt; WE KNOW THAT IS --
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; THERE'S GOT TO BE SOMETHING
IN HERE. SCUMBAGS.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE NOT GOING TO FOLD,
MAN!
&gt;&gt; OH THIS IS GOOD STUFF.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE NOT GOING TO FOLD!
&gt;&gt; LARRY BROCK WHO WAS ARRESTED
FOR HIS ROLE IN THE INSURRECTION
WAS PHOTOGRAPHED ON THE SENATE
FLOOR WEARING A HELMET, TACTICAL
GEAR AND CARRYING FLEX CUFFS.
THIS MAN ALSO
GALLERY IS
ERIC MONTEL. LIKE BROCK, HE WAS
DRESSED IN WHAT APPEARS TO BE
TACTICAL GEAR, ALSO HOLDING UP
FLEX CUFFS. IF THE DOORS TO THIS
CHAMBER HAD BEEN BREACHED JUST
MINUTES EARLIER, IMAGINE WHAT
THEY COULD HAVE DONE WITH THOSE
CUFFS. AFTER INSURRECTIONISTS
OCCUPIED THE CAPITAL AND STOPPED
THE JOINT SESSION FROM COUNTING
THE VOTES, THE CAPITAL WAS IN
LOCKDOWN FOR FIVE HOURS.
AS LONG AS IT TOOK TO GET BACK
TO THE CAPITAL -- CAPITOL, TO
GET BACK TO THE
INSURRECTION, IT MIGHT HAVE BEEN
EVEN LONGER BUT WHAT MIGHT HAVE
BEEN EVEN LONGER. 140 OFFICERS
INJURED, THREE OFFICERS
ULTIMATELY LOST THEIR LIVES. WE
ALL KNOW THAT AWFUL DAY COULD
HAVE BEEN SO MUCH WORSE. THE
ONLY REASON IT WAS NOT WAS
BECAUSE OF THE EXTRAORDINARY
BRAVERY OF THE MEN AND WOMEN OF
THE CAPITOL POLICE AND
METROPOLITAN POLICE DEPARTMENTS.
FOR HOURS AND HOURS, THESE
INSURRECTIONIST WERE IN
HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT WITH THESE
BRAVE MEN AND WOMEN. LIKE SOME
OF YOU, I COME FROM A LAW
ENFORCEMENT FAMILY. MY DAD WAS A
COP. MY TWO BROTHERS, MY LITTLE
BROTHERS ARE COPS WHO WALK THE
BEAT TODAY. I'M PROUD OF THEM.
AND LIKE
IN EVERY LAW ENFORCEMENT FAMILY,
WHEN WE HANG UP THE PHONE, WE
DON'T ONLY SAY I LOVE YOU. WE
SAY, "BE SAFE." SO LET'S FOCUS
NOW ON THE ATTACK AND WHAT IT
WAS LIKE FOR THE OFFICERS
DEFENDING THE CAPITAL THAT THEY.
AGAIN I WANT TO WARN YOU THAT
THE FOLLOWING AUDIO AND VIDEOS
ARE GRAPHIC AND ARE UNSETTLING.
BUT IT IS IMPORTANT THAT WE
UNDERSTAND THE EXTENT OF WHAT
OCCURRED.
HERE IS AN AUDIO RECORDING FROM
THE RADIO TRAFFIC OF THE DC
METROPOLITAN POLICE DEPARTMENT
DESCRIBING THE VIOLENCE.
&gt;&gt; THEY ARE SEIZING THE FLAG.
OFFICER 50, THE CROWD IS USING
MUNITIONS AGAINST US. THEY HAVE
BURST SPRAY IN THE CROWD. BURST
SPRAY IN THE CROWD. --
&gt;&gt; DSO! DSO! I NEED --. I NEED
-- UP HERE.
&gt;&gt; YOU HEAR THE OFFICER
DESCRIBED THEY ARE USING
MUNITIONS. THEY, THE RIOTERS ARE
USING MUNITIONS AGAINST US.
THIS VIDEO SHOWS
HOW THE SPRAYS THAT WERE
DESCRIBED ARE USED AGAINST
OFFICERS.
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; IN A SEPARATE METROPOLITAN
POLICE
DEPARTMENT RADIO TRAFFIC
REPORTING YOU CAN HEAR AN
OFFICER WHEN HE REALIZES THAT
THE INSURRECTIONISTS HAD
OVERTAKEN THE POLICE LINE.
&gt;&gt;
WE HAVE LOST THE LINE. WE LOST
THE LINE! WE ALL NEED TO PULL
BACK. ALL PD PULLBACK. ALL PD
PULLBACK. ALL PD --
&gt;&gt; CRUISER 50 --
1033. I REPEAT, 1033 -- WE HAVE
LOST THE LINE.
&gt;&gt; THE M PB
OFFICER CALLS OUT 1033, THE CALL
FOR EMERGENCY, OFFICER IN NEED
OF ASSISTANCE. HIS WORDS, "WE
HAVE LOST THE LINE." HOURS AFTER
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE AND SENATE
HAD LEFT THIS AREA, ON THE WEST
FRONT OF THE BUILDING, THE MOB
CONTINUED TO GROW, CONTINUED TO
BEAT THE OFFICERS AS THEY TRIED
TO GET IN. IN THIS NEW SECURITY
VIDEO YOU CAN SEE THE MOB
ATTACKING OFFICERS WITH A
CRUTCH, A HOCKEY STICK, A
BULLHORN AND A TRUMP FLAG.
I WANT TO ASSURE YOU THAT
SEMATECH
FROM THE OFFICERS' PERSPECTIVE
FROM HIS BODY CAMERA FOOTAGE.
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; THIS BODY CAMERA FOOTAGE IS
FROM 4:27
P.M. OVER TWO HOURS FROM WHEN
THE CAPITAL WAS FIRST BREACHED.
THE ATTACK ON POLICE THAT
AFTERNOON WAS CONSTANT.
METROPOLITAN POLICE OFFERS,
MICHAEL PHENOM, A 20 YEAR POLICE
OFFICER WITH FOUR DAUGHTERS WAS
PART OF A LINE OF OFFICERS
PROTECTING THE CAPITAL. HE WAS
ONE OF THREE OFFICERS THAT THE
MOB DRAGGED DOWN THE STAIRS.
WHEN THEY DRAGGED HIM, THEY
STOLE HIS BADGE, HIS RADIO, HIS
AMMUNITION MAGAZINE, AND THEY
TASED HIM. IT TRIGGERED A HEART
ATTACK. HERE HE DESCRIBES HIS
EXPERIENCE.
&gt;&gt; LOOKED LIKE A MEDIEVAL BATTLE
SCENE. SOME OF THOSE BRUTAL
COMBAT THAT I HAVE EVER
ENCOUNTERED. AT ONE POINT I GOT
TASED. PEOPLE YELLING OUT, WE
GOT ONE! WE GOT ONE.
&gt;&gt; OFFICER CHRISTINA LOREY WHO
REGULARLY SERVES IN MPD
'S NARCOTICS AND SPECIALTY
DIVISION ALSO PROTECTED THE
FRONT CAPITOL ENTRANCE. HERE IS
HER EXPERIENCE.
&gt;&gt;
I MEAN I CAN'T SAY ENOUGH ABOUT
THE OFFICERS THAT WERE THERE.
THE OFFICERS THAT WERE ON THE
FRONT LINE. AND WHEN I SAY THE
FRONTLINE I MEAN LITERALLY
OFFICERS THAT WERE IN A LINE
STOPPING THESE PEOPLE THAT WERE
BEATING THEM WITH METAL POLES,
SPRAYING THEM WITH BEAR MACE,
THEY DID EVERYTHING IN THEIR
POWER TO NOT LET THOSE PEOPLE IN
AND THIS WAS GOING ON FOR HOURS.
&gt;&gt; AROUND 4:
30 P.M., HOURS INTO THE CAPITAL
RIOTS, OFFICER DANIEL HODGES WAS
PROTECTING A WESTSIDE CAPITOL
ENTRANCE WHEN RIOTERS WHO ARE
TRYING TO STOP THE CERTIFICATION
TRAPPED HIM BETWEEN TWO DOORS.
WHEN OFFICER HODGES WAS
INTERVIEWED LATER, THIS WAS HOW
HE DESCRIBED WHAT WAS HAPPENING.
&gt;&gt; THEY THREW DOWN A HUGE METAL
OBJECT THAT HIT ME IN THE HEAD.
I WAS ALSO KNOCKED DOWN
THE MEDICAL MASK I WAS WEARING
OVER THE TIME GOT PULLED UP OVER
MY EYES SO I WAS ON THE GROUND
AND BLINDED AND THEY STARTED
ATTACKING ME FROM ALL SIDES.
&gt;&gt; RIOTERS CRUSHED OFFICER
HODGES.
HE WAS WEDGED IN THE DOORWAY.
BLOOD WAS DRIPPING FROM HIS
MOUTH. HE STRUGGLED TO BREATHE.
ALL WHILE THE INSURRECTIONISTS
HIT HIM.
OFFICER HODGES' EXPERIENCE
REMINDS YOU OF WHAT HE AND MANY
OTHER OFFICERS EXPERIENCE THAT
THEY. WHAT THEY WENT THROUGH.
WE ARE ALSO REMINDED OF THE
THREE OFFICERS WHO LOST THEIR
LIVES. CAPITOL HILL POLICE
OFFICERS CIGNA, SICK NECK,
LEAVING GOOD AND METROPOLITAN
OFFICER
SMITH. MANY LAW ENFORCEMENT
FAMILIES, WE PRAY FOR OUR LOVED
ONES AND WE KNOW THE SCRIPTURE
OF MATTHEW CHAPTER 5, VERSE 9.
BLESSED ARE THE PEACEMAKERS FOR
THEY SHALL BE CALLED THE
CHILDREN OF GOD. I'M SORRY I
HAVE TO SHOW YOU THE NEXT VIDEO.
BUT IN AND YOU WILL SEE HOW
BLESSED WE WERE
SHOWN ALL OFFICERS PROTECTING
OUR LIVES AND STAFF'S LIVES,
THIS CAPITOL AND THE
CERTIFICATION PROCESS. MAY WE DO
ALL WE CAN IN THIS CHAMBER TO
MAKE SURE THAT NEVER HAPPENS
AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; --
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, WE WILL NOW
HAVE A RECESS FOR DINNER AND
WILL RESUME AT 6:15.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL SET IT UP FOR A
STANDARD RECESS.
&gt;&gt; AN EMOTIONAL PRESENTATION AND
POWERFUL NEW EVIDENCE AT THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
CHARGE DONALD TRUMP WITH
VIOLATING HIS OATH OF OFFICE AND
ENDANGERING OUR COUNTRY, OUR
DEMOCRACY, MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
AND HIS OWN VICE PRESIDENT.
LET'S GO TO JANE'S HOME AND
JAMES HOLMAN. I KNOW THIS WAS
INCREDIBLY DIFFICULT FOR OUR
AUDIENCE TO WATCH BUT I WANT TO
THANK EVERYONE FOR STICKING
THREAT BECAUSE IT IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO BEAR
WITNESS TO WHAT HAPPENED.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN SEE MITCH McCONNELL
GOING ON RIGHT NOW JUST WATCH
AND SEE IF HIS HE HAS A --
JURORS WHO ARE PART OF THIS
HORRIBLE DAY. I WANT TO GO
THROUGH THE ELEMENTS HERE AND
TALK THROUGH THE IMPORTANT
ASPECTS OF THIS BECAUSE THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WHO GAVE
THEIR PRESENTATIONS, DELEGATE
PLASKETT AND REPRESENTATIVE
CAPITOL  REALLY FOCUSED ON SOME
KEY THINGS. AS THEY WENT THROUGH
THE TIMELINE, INCLUDING
THE PERIL THE VICE PRESIDENT WAS
IN, THE DANGER TO THE SPEAKER OF
THE HOUSE HAD SHE NOT BEEN
EVACUATED IN TIME AND OF COURSE
THE DANGER TO ALL MEMBERS AS
WELL AS POLICE. LET'S TALK ABOUT
THE VICE PRESIDENT TO BEGIN
WITH. JAMES?
&gt;&gt; SO WE SAW ALL THE
SURVEILLANCE FOOTAGE THAT WAS
JUXTAPOSED WITH VIDEOS WE HAVE
SEEN BEFORE AND IT DID SHOW HOW
MANY CLOSE CALLS THERE WERE. IT
REALLY IS MORE STRIKING THAN
EVER NOW HAVING SEEN THE
PRESENTATION WHICH HAS SHOWN
THERE WAS NOT MORE LOSS OF LIFE
ON JANUARY 6 AND THERE WAS NOT
DEADLY FORCE MORE USED BY
OFFICERS. THE PENCE VIDEO SHOWED
THE VICE PRESIDENT. WE OBVIOUSLY
ALSO TOGETHER
ON JANUARY 6 WHEN HE WAS TAKEN
OFF THE SENATE FLOOR, WHISKED
AWAY BY SECRET SERVICE. THE NEW
FOOTAGE WE SAW SHOWS HIM BEING
RUSHED DOWN A FLIGHT OF STAIRS
JUST OFF THE SENATE CHAMBER TO
HIS HIDEAWAY. AND YOU SEE THE
VICE PRESIDENT LOOKING BEHIND TO
HIS LEFT SORT OF NERVOUSLY AS HE
IS BEING RUSHED OUT ESSENTIALLY
RUNNING AWAY AND YOU ALSO SEE IN
THE SURVEILLANCE FOOTAGE THAT
THE MOB REALLY WAS BASICALLY
JUST OUTSIDE OF THE ROOM WHERE
PENCE WAS. SECRET SERVICE HAD
BARRICADED THE DOOR BUT AND THE
MOB DID NOT KNOW HE WAS THERE
BUT THEY WERE LOOKING FOR HIM
AND CHANTING, HEY, MIKE PENCE."
HE WAS RIGHT THERE THROUGH IT
ALL
AS THEY ENDED UP GETTING INTO
THE SENATE CHAMBER.
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANT TO MENTION WE SAW
SENATOR ROMNEY GO DOWN THE
CORRIDOR AND ALL THE REPORTERS
FOLLOWING HIM BECAUSE WE SAW
STUNNING FOOTAGE OF OFFICER
GOODMAN SAVING THE SENATORS IN
THE CHAMBER BY REDIRECTING THE
MOB AWAY FROM THEM. WE SAW THAT
FOOTAGE OF HIM RUNNING THROUGH
THE HALL TO CONFRONT, AS
DELICATE PLASKETT  EXPLAINED,
THE FIRST WAVE OF ATTACKERS. HE
PASSES MITT ROMNEY AND WARNS HIM
AND ROMNEY TURNS AND RUNS
, JAMES?
&gt;&gt; THAT WAS THE MOST POWERFUL,
THE TWO CLOSE CALLS I WAS KIND
OF STRUCK BY WHICH WE DID NOT
KNOW ABOUT BEFORE THE
PRESENTATION. WITH MITT ROMNEY,
YOU REALLY, YOU SAW IN THE VIDEO
IT IS CLEARLY MITT ROMNEY
WALKING DOWN YOU SAW THE MOB
COMING IN, THE GUY WAVING A
TRUMP FLAG AND ANOTHER HAD A
CONFEDERATE FLAG AND SOMEONE
USED A WOODEN BASICALLY BOARD TO
BREAK THROUGH THE WINDOW AND
SOMEONE ELSE OPENS THE DOOR BUT
WE SAW THE VIDEO OF EVERYONE
INSIDE. THERE WAS AT LEAST 100
PEOPLE WHO HAD GOTTEN INSIDE AND
SIMULTANEOUSLY, MITT ROMNEY IS
LITERALLY WALKING DOWN THE
HALLWAY TOWARD THEM AND SO WE
HAVE SEEN OFFICER EUGENE GOODMAN
WHO HAS OBVIOUSLY GOTTEN A LOT
OF ATTENTION. THERE WAS A
REPORTER FROM HUFF POST WHO
CAPTURED A VIDEO OF HIM LEADING
THE MOB AWAY FROM THE WHERE THE
SENATORS WERE IN THE CHAMBER AND
WHERE MIKE PENCE WAS SORT OF
GUIDING THEM TOWARD WHERE THERE
WAS A BACK UP LINE OF OFFICERS.
WE DID NOT REALIZE BEFORE NOW
THAT ROMNEY
. OBVIOUSLY,
THIS CREW JUST TESTED THEM
. IF THAT CROWD HAD GOTTEN TO
ROMNEY, IF GOODMAN HAD NOT
TURNED ROMNEY AROUND AND YOU SAW
HIM RUN THE OTHER DIRECTION, IT
WOULD HAVE BEEN A DISASTER.
SIMILARLY, IT WOULD'VE BEEN A
DISASTER IF CHUCK SCHUMER HAD
RUN INTO THE CROWD AND THAT WAS
THE OTHER CLOSE CALL THAT WE DID
NOT KNOW ABOUT BEFORE THE
PRESENTATION SO YOU SAW CHUCK
SCHUMER WALKING UP WITH THE
SECURITY DETAIL. THOSE WHO KNOW
THE CAPITAL NO
CAPITOL KNOW HE WAS WALKING INTO
THE CAPITOL VISITOR CENTER AND
THERE WERE PEOPLE COMING THE
OTHER DIRECTION SO YOU SEE
SHURMUR GO UP THIS RAMP AND
IMMEDIATELY TURN AROUND AND COME
BACK DOWN THE RAMP AND HE IS
WALKING UP THE RAMP AND WHEN HE
GOES BACK DOWN THE RAMP
IMMEDIATELY AFTER, HE IS RUNNING
SO WE DID NOT REALIZE HOW CLOSE,
AGAIN, ONE OF THE MOST
RECOGNIZABLE FIGURES IN
CONGRESS, CHUCK SCHUMER, IF HE
HAD COME IN CONTACT WITH THE MOB
IT WOULD'VE BEEN A DISASTER AND
WHO KNOWS WHAT WOULD HAVE
HAPPENED. SWALWELL ALSO SHOWED
FOOTAGE NOT ONCE BUT TWICE OF
SENATORS WHEN THEY WERE
EVACUATED  FROM THE SENATE
CHAMBER AND GOING TO THE SECURE
LOCATION WHERE THEY ENDED UP
STAYING FOR SEVERAL HOURS. YOU
LITERALLY SAW SEVERAL SENATORS
WHO WERE IN THE CHAMBER FOR THE
TRIAL INCLUDING A BUNCH OF
REPUBLICANS WHO
OPPOSED THE PRESIDENT'S
IMPEACHMENT RUNNING FOR THEIR
LIVES AND YOUR SAKE STAFFERS,
THOSE THAT COVER CONGRESS, A LOT
OF US QUITE RECOGNIZABLE,
RUNNING DOWN AND
SWALWELL PLAYED IT TWICE BECAUSE
IT WAS SUCH A VISCERAL IMAGE.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO PLAY THAT FOOTAGE
OF SENATOR ROMNEY. THIS IS
DELEGATE  STACY PLASKETT  ONE OF
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS TAKING
US THROUGH THAT MOMENT.
&gt;&gt; IN THIS SECURITY FOOTAGE YOU
CAN SEE OFFICER GOODMAN RUNNING
TO RESPOND TO THE INITIAL
BREACH. OFFICER GOODMAN PASSES
SENATOR MITT ROMNEY AND DIRECTS
HIM TO TURN AROUND IN ORDER TO
GET TO SAFETY.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO RHONDA COLEMAN
LIVE AT THE CAPITAL. RHONDA,
THERE WERE MANY CLOSE CALLS AS
OUTLINED IN THE FOOTAGE TODAY
AND ALSO THE USE OF THOSE RED
DOTS THAT SHOWED SORT OF WHERE
ATTACKERS WERE AND WHERE
IMPORTANT PLAYERS IN AMERICAN
GOVERNMENT WERE AT THE SAME
TIME.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: RIGHT,
THIS SORT OF ADDS MORE PIECES TO
THE WHOLE PUZZLE. THE TIMELINE
THAT WAS JUST TOLD US BY THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, SHOWING
THESE NEAR MISSES OF KEY FIGURES
IN CONGRESS. ALL OF THEM, REALLY
AND GOING OVER SOME OF THE
DOCUMENTATION THAT IS PART OF
THE FBI'S INVESTIGATION OF THIS.
ONE THAT STANDS OUT TO ME AS A
MAN ASSOCIATED WITH ONE OF THE
GROUPS THAT SAID IN AN FBI
INTERVIEW THAT THEY WOULD KILL
ANYONE THEY GOT THEIR HANDS ON
AND THEY WERE SPECIFICALLY
LOOKING FOR NANCY PELOSI. WE
ALSO LEARNED AND SOME MAY HAVE
LEARNED THAT THE MAN WHO PUT HIS
FEET ON NANCY PELOSI'S DESK HAD
A HIGH-VOLTAGE STUN GUN ON HIM.
THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT STACEY
PLASKETT DID SHARE AND SHOWED
AND HIGHLIGHTED IN THE PHOTO
THERE OF HIM. THERE ARE ALL
THESE DETAILS THAT ARE SORT OF
KIND OF MAKING THIS PICTURE EVEN
MORE GRIM. WE SAW
HOW NANCY PELOSI'S STAFFERS HAD
TO HIDE IN A ROOM AND COULD HEAR
THE MOB IN HER OFFICE. WE WERE
NOW ABLE TO SEE HOW THEY LEFT
AND WENT INTO A ROOM AND HOW
MOMENTS LATER THE MOB CAME
THROUGH AND TRIED TO BREAK INTO
THE DOORWAY THAT THEY WERE ALL
IN.
&gt;&gt; I'M GOING TO JUST LISTEN TO
SENATOR MURKOWSKI HERE.
&gt;&gt; TO MY COLLEAGUES, I WASN'T
FULLY AWARE OF EVERYTHING ELSE
THAT WAS HAPPENING IN THE
BUILDING SO WHEN WE SEE ALL THE
PIECES COME TOGETHER, JUST THE
TOTAL AWARENESS OF THAT BEING
, THE THREAT NOT JUST TO ASSESS
PEOPLE, AS LAWMAKERS BUT THE
THREAT TO THE INSTITUTION AND
WHAT CONGRESS REPRESENTS. IT
DISTURBING. GREATLY DISTURBING.
&gt;&gt; THE MAN
HAS BEEN TRYING TO MAKE A CASE
THAT THIS IS COMPLETELY DONALD
TRUMP'S DOING. YOU AGREE WITH
THAT?
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT THE HOUSE
MANAGERS ARE MAKING A VERY
STRONG CASE FOR A TIMELINE THAT
LAID OUT VERY CLEARLY
WITH THE WORDS THAT WERE USED,
WHEN HE USED THEM, HOW HE USED
THEM TO REALLY BUILD THE ANGER
, THE VIOLENCE THAT WE SAW HERE
IN THIS CAPITOL.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANY DOUBT IN YOUR
MIND AS WE WATCHED THAT, THEY
CALLED IT A DRUMBEAT WITH REGARD
TO WHAT WAS HAPPENING AND THEY
BUILT, LIKE YOU SAID, A
TIMELINE. IS THERE ANY DOUBT IN
YOUR MIND THAT DONALD TYPE
DONALD TRUMP INCITED AN
INSURRECTION?
&gt;&gt; I AM LOOKING AT WHAT WE ARE
SEEING NOW. I HAVE SAID THAT I
WOULD LOOK TO THE EVIDENCE THAT
IS PRESENTED. THE EVIDENCE THAT
HAS BEEN PRESENTED THUS FAR IS
PRETTY DAMNING. BUT I ALSO KNOW
THAT I HAVE AN OBLIGATION AND
RESPONSIBILITY AND ONE THAT I
ACCEPT TO LISTEN TO WHAT
THE DEFENSE WILL PRESENT AND SO
I HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO DO THAT
IN A DAY OR SO BUT TODAY, AGAIN,
I THINK THE SERIES OF VIDEOS
THAT WE HAVE SEEN, AGAIN, A
REMINDER OF WHAT WE ALL LIVED
THROUGH AND UNFORTUNATELY, WHAT
SOME DID NOT LIVE THROUGH. IT IS
GREATLY, GREATLY DISTURBING.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU HAVE CONCERNS THAT IF
THE SENATE DOES NOT ACT AND BAR
DONALD TRUMP FROM
RUNNING FOR OFFICE AGAIN THAT HE
COULD RUN AGAIN AND INSIGHT THE
SIMILAR SAME MOB OF SUPPORTERS
HERE?
&gt;&gt; I DON'T SEE HOW -- I DON'T
SEE HOW, AFTER THE AMERICAN
PUBLIC SEES THE FULL STORY LAID
OUT HERE, NOT JUST IN ONE
SNIPPET ON THIS DAY AND ANOTHER
ON THAT, BUT THIS WHOLE, THIS
FULL SCENARIO THAT HAS BEEN LAID
OUT BEFORE US, I JUST DON'T SEE
HOW DONALD TRUMP COULD BE
REELECTED. I JUST DON'T SEE
THAT.
&gt;&gt; YOU ARE UNDER NO PRESSURE OR
ARE YOU FROM YOUR LEADERSHIP TO
GO A CERTAIN WAY?
&gt;&gt; NONE WHATSOEVER. ABSOLUTELY
NOT.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU FEEL FREE
TO VOTE YOUR CONSCIENCE?
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
&gt;&gt;
SENATOR LISA MURKOWSKI FROM
ALASKA, A KEY SENATOR TO WATCH
BECAUSE SHE IS ONE OF THOSE SIX
REPUBLICANS WHO VOTED WITH
DEMOCRATS YESTERDAY SAYING THIS
IS A CONSTITUTIONAL PROCESS.
RHONDA, I AM SORRY TO CUT YOU
OFF EARLIER AND I WANT TO GET
BACK TO WHAT YOU ARE SAYING BUT
I WANTED TO STAY ON LISA
MURKOWSKI FOR A MOMENT BECAUSE
SHE HAD SOME VERY STRONG WORDS.
SHE CALLED THE EVIDENCE DAMNING
AND TALKED ABOUT HOW DISTURBING
IT WAS AND YET SHE WANTS TO HEAR
EVERYTHING LAID OUT THIS WEEK.
SHE IS NOT COMMITTING AT THIS
POINT. SHE WANTS TO HEAR ALL OF
THE EVIDENCE. SHE DID SAY SHE
DOES NOT SEE HOW DONALD TRUMP
COULD EVER BE REELECTED AGAIN. I
THINK THERE ARE A LOT OF
REPUBLICANS WHO WOULD BEG TO
DIFFER ON THAT. RHONDA.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: I THINK YOU ARE
RIGHT AND I AM ACTUALLY, WHEN
SHE SAID THAT I WAS THINKING
BACK TO 2015 ONE DONALD TRUMP
CAME DOWN THE ESCALATOR AND
ANNOUNCED HIS CANDIDACY. A LOT
OF REPUBLICANS DID NOT THINK IT
WAS SERIOUS AND DID NOT THINK HE
WOULD BE ELECTED AND DEMOCRATS
AS WELL BUT IT INDEED HAPPENED
SO IT SOUNDS LIKE SHE IS ALSO
PUTTING SOME RESPONSIBILITY ON
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT AFTER
THEY VIEW THIS NOW, THEY WOULD
NOT VOTE FOR HIM AGAIN FOUR
YEARS FROM NOW BUT WE REALLY
DON'T KNOW. SO I DON'T KNOW. I
THINK SHE MIGHT BE SORT OF
GIVING HERSELF
, YOU KNOW, LETTING HER KNOW
THAT SHE IS TRYING TO BE AN
IMPARTIAL JUROR. SHE HAS
SOMEWHAT OF A SIMILAR POSTURE AS
SHE DID LAST IMPEACHMENT WHERE
SHE WAS ONE OF THOSE LAST
SENATORS WE WERE ALL WATCHING TO
SEE WHICH WAY SHE WAS GOING TO
GO. SHE HAD SAID THEN THAT SHE
DID NOT AGREE WITH DONALD
TRUMP'S ACTIONS BUT WOULD NOT
VOTE TO IMPEACH HIM SO IT SOUNDS
LIKE SHE IS SORT OF KIND OF
TAKING THAT SIMILAR STANCE THERE
OF NOT AGREEING ON ONE SIDE OR
THE OTHER JUST YET SO WE WILL
SEE. WILL CONTINUE TO WATCH HER
AS WELL AS SOME OF THE OTHER SIX
REPUBLICANS WHO DID VOTE FOR THE
CONSTITUTIONALITY OF THIS TRIAL.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA I WANTED TO LET YOU
GET BACK TO FINISH YOUR THOUGHT.
I'M SO SORRY TO CUT YOU OFF
EARLIER. WE WILL KEEP MONITORING
THAT
MICROPHONE TO SEE IF SENATORS TO
COME AND SPEAK, ONCE WE ARE
PARTICULARLY WATCHING. PLEASE,
CONTINUE ON WHAT YOU ARE SAYING.
&gt;&gt; Reporter: RIGHT AND THIS IS
AN IMPORTANT TIME BECAUSE THEY
ARE GOING AFTER THEIR DINNER
BREAK AND A LOT OF THEM WILL
STOP TO TALK TO SOME REPORTERS
ALONG THE WAY SO IT IS IMPORTANT
TO CHECK IN AND SEE WHAT THEY
ARE SAYING AFTER WE HAVE WATCHED
SOME REALLY STRIKING FOOTAGE
OVER THE LAST HOUR. THIS
PRESENTATION WE JUST SAW ALLOWED
US TO SEE HOW CLOSE. WE ARE TOLD
HOW STAFFERS WERE BARRICADED BUT
WE WERE ABLE TO SEE HOW CLOSE
THE MOB GOT TO THOSE STAFFERS
AND MANY WERE QUITE YOUNG AND I
HAVE SPOKEN TO MANY STAFFERS
HERE ON THE HILL SINCE JANUARY 6
AND A LOT OF THEM DO SHARE THE
TRAUMA THAT THEY HAD THAT DAY
AND CONCEIVED TO LIVE WITH WHEN
THEY SEE THESE
SCENES AND WALKED BACK INTO
THESE BUILDINGS. THIS IS
SOMETHING THEY CANNOT LEAVE
BEHIND JUST ON JANUARY 6 AND I
THINK FOR THE AMERICAN PUBLIC
WHO MAY NOT HAVE KNOWN THE SCALE
OF JANUARY 6 AND HOW LONG IT
LASTED, HOW IT WAS HOURS, THAT
PEOPLE WERE BARRICADED IN SAFE
ROOMS, THEY ARE GETTING A SENSE
OF THAT RIGHT NOW. THERE IS ALSO
A PORTION IN REPRESENTATIVES
WHILE WHILE'S COMMENTS WHERE HE
SAID HE PACED
IT OUT AND SAW HOW CLOSE THEY
WERE TO THE MOB THAT CAME IN
THAT DIRECTION AND SAID THEY
WERE ONLY 58 STATE STEPS AWAY.
THIS COULD HAVE RESULTED IN A
LOT OF
, A MORE GRIM PICTURE THAN WHAT
IT WAS BUT WHAT WE HAVE RIGHT
NOW, THE EVIDENCE WE HAVE RIGHT
NOW IS STILL VERY DIFFICULT TO
GRASP THAT THEY CAME THAT CLOSE
TO SO MANY PEOPLE.
&gt;&gt; LET'S TALK ABOUT JUST HOW
REPUBLICANS
AROUND THE COUNTRY ARE REACTING
TO THIS WITH INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTER, TOM HAMBURGER. WE JUST
HEARD LISA MURKOWSKI, A SENATOR
FROM ALASKA MARVEL AND SAY SHE
DOESN'T SEE HOW PEOPLE COULD
REELECT DONALD TRUMP AFTER
HEARING ALL OF THIS BUT I WANT
TO TALK ABOUT A STORY YOU
REPORTED WITH OUR CALLING, CANHA
KNOWLES ABOUT THE SENATE
MAJORITY A REPUBLICAN IN THE
STATE OF MICHIGAN WHO TOLD
MEMBERS OF HIS PARTY THAT THE
CAPITOL ATTACK WAS STAGED AND
NOT DONE BY TWO TRUMP
SUPPORTERS. TOM?
&gt;&gt; Reporter: SO THIS IS MAYBE A
SIGN OF
AT LEAST SOME OF THE GRASSROOTS
REACTION. YOU HAVE THE MAJORITY
LEADER OF THE MICHIGAN STATE
SENATE, MAJORITY LEADER SHIRKEY
WHO AND RECORDED CONVERSATION
WITH A REPUBLICAN ACTIVIST IN
MICHIGAN DESCRIBED
THE ATTACK ON THE CAPITOL AS A
WHOLE AND SAID THAT HE THOUGHT
ANTIFA SUPPORTERS WERE REALLY
BEHIND IT.
IT CREATED SOMETHING OF A
SENSATION IN MICHIGAN AND THERE
WERE CALLS FOR HIM TO STEP DOWN
AND ANGRY COMMENTS FROM
DEMOCRATS. HE APOLOGIZED BUT
SAID HE SOMETIMES ALLOWS HIS
STRONG VIEWS AND STRONG VIEWS TO
GET AHEAD OF WHAT HE REALLY
OUGHT TO SAY. HE DID NOT,
HOWEVER
, APOLOGIZE FOR CALLING IT A
HOAX AND TODAY, HE WAS CAUGHT I
GATHER IN LANSING, MICHIGAN, IN
THE STATE CAPITAL IN THE SENATE
ON A HOT MICROPHONE TALKING TO A
COLLEAGUE IN THE LEGISLATURE
SAYING THAT HE THOUGHT THE HOAX
WAS THAT IT WAS BLAMING DONALD
TRUMP FOR THIS THAT IT HAD
NOTHING TO DO WITH DONALD TRUMP.
WE HAVE ASKED HIM AGAIN FOR
COMMENT TODAY AND DON'T HAVE ANY
FURTHER RESPONSE. BUT IT IS A
SIGN OF HOW POLARIZED THIS
COUNTRY CONTINUES TO BE AND HOW
EVEN AS THIS IMPEACHMENT TRIAL
GETS UNDERWAY PUBLIC REPUBLICAN
SUPPORTERS, ALLIES OF DONALD
TRUMP CONTINUE TO
, AT LEAST IN SOME WAY, WANT TO
COME TO HIS DEFENSE.
&gt;&gt; TOM, CONGRESSWOMAN MARJORIE
TAYLOR GREENE WHO IS KNOWN TO
ENDORSE AND SHARE CONSPIRACY
THERE IS, TOTALLY BIZARRE
CONSPIRACY THEORIES AND SAID
ABSOLUTELY BONKERS THINGS THAT
I'M NOT GOING TO WIN TO IN
DETAIL RIGHT NOW.
SHE ALSO SUGGESTED THAT TRUMP
SUPPORTERS WERE NOT THE ONE TO
BLAME IN THIS. HOW ARE PEOPLE
ABLE TO SAY THAT GIVEN WHAT WE
ARE WITNESSING TODAY? AND THE
FACT THAT TRUMP SUPPORTERS
THEMSELVES HAVE TAKEN CREDIT FOR
STORMING THE CAPITAL?
&gt;&gt; I DON'T WANT TO TRY TO GET
INTO THE MINDS OF THOSE WHO ARE
CLAIMING THIS. WE WERE
PARTICULARLY INTERESTED IN LATER
SHIRKEY AND HIS THOUGHTS BECAUSE
YOU MAY RECALL HE WAS NOT
CONSIDERED A
-- ON THE EXTREME EDGES OR
FRINGES OF THE REPUBLICAN PARTY.
ONE DONALD TRUMP CALLED HIM TO
WASHINGTON, TO ASK FOR HIS
SUPPORT IN THE OVAL OFFICE,
CONTESTING THE VOTE IN MICHIGAN,
HE AND THE REPUBLICAN HOUSE
MAJORITY LEADER FROM LANSING,
MICHIGAN TOLD THE PRESIDENT THAT
THEY DID NOT THINK HE HAD WON
AND THEY ASKED FOR HELP WITH A
COVERED RELIEF PACKAGE SO HE WAS
A REPUBLICAN WHO SEEMED TO BE
QUITE CENTERED.
SINCE JOE BIDEN HAS BEEN SWORN
AND THERE HAVE BEEN EFFORTS IN
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN WHICH
LATER SHIRKEY IS SURELY AWARE OF
TO REPRIMAND REPUBLICANS WHO ARE
CONSIDERED DISLOYAL TO DONALD
TRUMP. SOME REPUBLICAN
, STATE AND COUNTY REPUBLICAN
UNITS HAVE TAKEN VOTES TO
CENSURE OR DISAPPROVE ONE OF THE
MOST SENIOR AND INFLUENTIAL
REPUBLICANS IN THE STATE, FRED
UPTON, A MICHIGAN CONGRESSMAN,
FOR HIS, WHAT WAS PERCEIVED AS
DISLOYALTY TO DONALD TRUMP.
WE DO HAVE AND WE ARE CONTINUING
TO FIND, WE ARE SEEING IT IN
MICHIGAN AND YOU JUST
DESCRIBED A CONGRESSWOMAN FROM
GEORGIA AND WE ARE SEEING IT IN
OTHER TRUMP STRONGHOLDS AROUND
THE COUNTRY THAT THERE IS
CONTINUED LOYALTY FOR DONALD
TRUMP AND THERE ARE THOSE WHO
CONTINUE TO ADHERE TO SOME
THEORIES THAT ARE DESCRIBED IN
THIS IMPEACHMENT PROCESS AS FAR
OUT AND IS FALSE WHETHER IT HAS
TO DO WITH ELECTION FRAUD OR
WITH
THE CAPITOL ATTACK THAT IT WAS
SOMEWHAT OF A HOAX AND WAS NOT
INSTIGATED BY DONALD TRUMP. WE
ARE STILL HEARING THAT
REVERBERATION AND THAT IS A SIGN
OF JUST HOW DIVIDED AND
POLARIZED WE CONTINUE TO BE.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, I WILL BRING YOU INTO
THE CONVERSATION. I REALLY
APPRECIATE TOM'S JOURNALISTIC
AND ABSOLUTELY WE ARE NOT GOING
TO GET IN THE HEADS OF PEOPLE
ABSOLUTELY BUT I WANT TO KNOW
WHAT JUSTIFICATION ARE THEY
USING? HOW ARE THEY EXPLAINING
AWAY THE IDEA THAT THIS WAS
ANTIFA OR SOMETHING THAT THERE
IS NO EVIDENCE FOR? I WILL POINT
OUT THAT WHILE WE HAVE BEEN
BROADCASTING THIS FOR THE
WASHINGTON POST AND THE
NETWORKS,
THE CABLE NETWORKS ARE COVERING
IT, FOX NEWS PULLED AWAY FROM
THE PRESENTATION SO IF YOU'RE
WONDERING WHERE PEOPLE ARE
GETTING THEIR INFORMATION, AND
YOU ARE A FOX NEWS VIEWER, YOU
ARE NOT SEEING SOME OF THE
EVIDENCE PRESENTED THIS EVENING.
&gt;&gt; THE BEST THING FOR DONALD
TRUMP WOULD BE THE TRAVEL
IMPULSE AND FOX CUTTING AWAY IS
A METAPHOR FOR A LOT OF
REPUBLICANS TRYING TO LOOK AWAY.
TO.
LOOK AT THE FOOTAGE. TO NOT
WATCH WHAT HAPPENED AND ONE OF
THE REASONS THIS WAS SO
EFFECTIVE FOR THE PEOPLE IN THE
ROOM IS IT IS VISCERAL, THEY
WERE THERE AND THEY COULD NOT
LOOK AWAY. THE SENATORS HAD
WATCH. ULTIMATELY, THEIR ENTIRE
POLITICAL CAREERS ARE TIED UP
AND HOW THEY VOTE ON THIS.
ULTIMATELY, WHETHER TRUMP IS
CONVICTED OR ACQUITTED, THIS IS
HIS LEGACY. WHAT WE SAW AND A
LOT OF THESE POLITICIANS KNOW
THAT
, THEY KNOW THAT IS HOW EVERYONE
IS GOING TO REMEMBER HIM BUT
THERE IS THIS ECHO CHAMBER ON
SOCIAL MEDIA AND PLACES. FOX
NEWS IS CONSERVATIVE OR
PRO-TRUMP ENOUGH FOR A LOT OF
TRUMP SUPPORTERS SO THEY TURN TO
NEWS NEXT-DOOR AMERICAN NEWS.
THIS IS A TIME IN AMERICAN
HISTORY TO ONLY EXPOSE YOURSELF
TO INFORMATION THAT VALIDATES
WHAT YOU ALREADY THINK AND THAT
IS SOMETHING THAT DONALD TRUMP
UNDERSTANDS AND THAT IS WHY HE
WAS ABLE TO BECOME THE FIRST
PRESIDENT IN AMERICAN HISTORY
WITH NO PRIOR GOVERNMENT OR
MILITARY EXPERIENCE BECAUSE HE
CAN TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
FRAGMENTED MEDIA ENVIRONMENT
WHERE THE WAY TO BREAK THROUGH
ESPECIALLY ON THE RIGHT IS TO BE
PROVOCATIVE BECAUSE THERE IS NOT
ONE SHARED SET OF FACTS ANYMORE
AS THEY USED TO BE. IT IS
TOTALLY, KELLYANNE CONWAY SAID
THIS WORLD OF ALTERNATIVE FACTS
WHERE THEY CREATED THIS
ARCHITECTURE THAT IS TOTALLY
DISTINCT FROM REALITY.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO SHARE WITH YOU
REPORTING FROM OUR COLLEAGUE,
SIMON KIM WHO WAS ABLE TO --
SEUNG MIN KIM.
ALSO WITH OFFICER GOODMAN WHO
WAS WIDELY PRAISED BUT HE DID
NOT KNOW BUT HE WOULD LOOK
FORWARD TO THANKING HIM ONCE HE
SAW HIM.
SENATOR ROMNEY ALSO SAID THIS,
IT WAS OBVIOUSLY VERY TROUBLING
TO SEE THE GREAT VIOLENCE AT OUR
CAPITOL POLICE AND OTHERS
SUBJECTED TO AND IT TEARS AT
YOUR HEART AND BRINGS TEARS TO
YOUR EYES. THAT WAS
OVERWHELMINGLY DISTRESSING AND
EMOTIONAL. SO RHONDA COLEMAN, WE
ARE GETTING A SENSE THAT
SENDERS WERE VERY MUCH TUNED IN
THIS EVENING, PAYING ATTENTION,
FOCUS. FOR RICK MITT ROMNEY TO
TELL -- TO ALL OF THE OTHERS,
FRANKLY.
&gt;&gt;
THOSE VIDEOS FROM THE SECURITY
CAMERA ANGLE KIND OF BROUGHT IT
HOME TO THEM AND SHOWED HOW
CLOSE THEY WERE AND THE PEOPLE
THAT GOT AS CLOSE AS THEY DID
HAD INTENT. THEY CAME HERE WITH
A PREFACE AND THAT IS WHAT THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE
TRYING TO TELL EVERYONE IS THAT
THE WORDS THAT DONALD TRUMP SAID
THAT ONLY ON THE EARLY PART OF
JANUARY 6 BUT ALSO LEADING UP TO
-- I THINK WE ARE GOING TO
LISTEN TO CHUCK SCHUMER.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE ON BREAK TO DINNER. I
DON'T THINK MANY OF US FEEL LIKE
EATING DINNER. IT WAS GUT
WRENCHING. THE BRAVERY OF OUR
POLICE OFFICERS IS INCREDIBLE.
IT WAS COMPELLING. AND I JUST
HOPE THAT OUR REPUBLICAN
COLLEAGUES HAVE AN OPEN MIND AS
A LOOK TO SEE WHAT THEY ARE
SEEING TODAY.
THE MANAGERS MADE AN
OVERWHELMINGLY COMPELLING CASE
AS FAR AS I AM CONCERNED.
--
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO TO REACTION ABOUT
WHAT MAJORITY LEADER CHUCK
SCHUMER SAID.
&gt;&gt; WELL I FEEL LIKE HE FELT HE
HAD THE, BECAUSE HE WAS ONE OF
THE SENATORS WE SAW IN THAT
NEVER BEFORE SEEN FOOTAGE WHERE
YOU SEE JUST HOW CLOSE HE WAS TO
DANGER. SO HE DID COMMENT ON
WHAT THAT FELT LIKE AND HE
BELIEVES THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS ARE DEALING WITH AND
DOING A PRETTY GOOD JOB AT
LETTING PEOPLE HOW NO HOW BAD
THE SITUATION WAS.
ONE OF THE THINGS THEY ARE DOING
IS SHOWING THERE WAS INTENT AND
PURPOSE THAT MANY OF THESE MEN
AND WOMEN AS WELL WHO WERE IN
THE GROUP CAME WITH WEAPONS.
THERE WAS A MAN WHO, IN ONE
EARLY VIDEO WE SHOT A BIT AGO,
CAME IN WITH A BASEBALL BAT AND
WHEN HE BROKE THROUGH,
HE AND THE OTHERS WERE ABLE TO
PULL OTHERS THROUGH WHO ARE
TRYING TO BREAK OTHER DOORS AND
WINDOWS. SO THERE WAS INTENT AND
PURPOSE. WE SEE THE MAN WITH THE
ZIP TIES AND HOW CLOSE HE WAS TO
SOME SENATORS WHO HAD GOTTEN
AWAY TOWARD THE END OF THE
EVACUATION. THIS IS SHOWING THAT
THERE WAS PREMEDITATION. IT
DOESN'T MEAN EVERYBODY IN THE
ENTIRE GROUP OR THE ENTIRE GROUP
OF PEOPLE WHO CAME TO THESE
WERE GOING TO BE VIOLENT BUT IT
IS SHOWING YOU THERE WAS A LEVEL
OF COORDINATION AMONG SOME OF
THESE PEOPLE AND WE ARE SEEING
SOME FBI REPORTS COMING OUT NOW
SHOWING THE THINKING
THE PEOPLE HAD AND HOW THEY ARE
SAYING THEY CAME HERE BECAUSE
THEIR PRESIDENT, PRESIDENT
TRUMP, ASKED THEM TO DO THIS SO
I BELIEVE I MENTIONED IT EARLIER
BUT WE ALSO
LEARNED THAT THE MAN WHO INVADED
SPEAKER PELOSI'S OFFICE AND PUT
HIS FEET ON THE DESK AT A
HIGH-VOLTAGE STUN GUN ON HIS
BELT. THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO CAME
HERE NOT JUST FOR A PASSIONATE
SHOW OUTSIDE THE CAPITAL. THEY
CAME HERE WITH MATERIALS TO DO
HARM.
&gt;&gt; TOM HAMBURGER, YOU HAVE BEEN
REPORTING ON SORT OF THE ROLE IN
THE PROCESS HERE RIGHT NOW.
THIS IS NOT SORT OF A CLASSIC
CRIMINAL TRIAL IN THAT THIS IS A
POLITICAL TRIAL BUT THERE ARE
VERY IMPORTANT CONSTITUTIONAL
QUESTIONS AT STAKE HERE SO
WHAT DO THESE JURORS, THE
SENATORS NEED TO BE SORT OF
WEIGHING IN SORT OF BURDEN OF
PROOF?
&gt;&gt; WILL THAT IS SUCH A GOOD
QUESTION AND YOU ARE RIGHT, OF
COURSE THAT THIS IS NOT A
TRADITIONAL TRIAL. IT IS PART OF
OUR POLITICAL AND CONSTITUTIONAL
STRUCTURE AND ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT CAME HOME TO ALL OF US I
THINK AND THIS WAS THE INTENT.
MANY MEMBERS OF THIS JURY WERE
THEMSELVES
ACTORS, PARTICIPANTS IN THE
DRAMA THAT WE SAW UNFOLD HERE.
SO I KNOW FROM TALKING WITH SOME
OF THE HOUSE MANAGERS TEAM JUST
BEFORE THIS LAST SEGMENT, THEY
VIEWED WHAT THEY WERE SHOWING US
PERHAPS
THE MOST STARTLING AND EFFECTIVE
MATERIAL THAT COULD BE PRESENTED
TO THESE JURORS. THEY ARE
TARGETING PARTICULARLY THE 17
REPUBLICAN VOTES THAT THEY NEED
TO CONVICT DONALD TRUMP. PART OF
WHAT THEY WANTED TO DISPLAY
TODAY AND PART OF WHAT I THOUGHT
THEY SHOWED QUITE EFFECTIVELY
WAS JUST HOW CLOSE IS MEMBERS OF
THE SENATE, THESE JURORS CAME TO
HARM COMING TO SERIOUS DANGER
FROM THOSE WHO, FROM THE MOB
THAT WAS ASSAULTING THE CAPITAL.
ONE OF THE MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE
MANAGERS TEAM SHOWED ME THAT HE
THOUGHT MEMBERS OF THE SENATE
WOULD BE SURPRISED THEMSELVES TO
LEARN HOW CLOSE THEY CAME TO THE
MOB AND THERE WAS THAT DRAMATIC
SEQUENCE WHERE YOU SAW THE
SENATORS BEING LET OUT, SOME OF
THEM PUTTING SHOULDERS ON EACH
OTHER'S ARMS AS THEY WERE
LEADING OUT, TAKING
THEM FROM THE SENATE CHAMBERS.
CAPITOL POLICE WERE GUARDING
THEM AND REPRESENTATIVE SWALWELL
REPORTS THERE WERE  ONLY 48
STEPS FROM THE MOB.
SO ALL OF THIS IS WHAT GOES IN
OF COURSE TO A PRESENTATION TO A
JURY. IT IS PARTLY
THERE ARE THEATRICS INVOLVED,
EMOTION INVOLVED AND YOU DO WANT
TO REACH BOTH THE EMOTION AND
PERSONAL INTERESTS OF THE JUROR.
I THOUGHT THESE, THE HOUSE
MANAGERS STRUCK A VERY EFFECTIVE
TONE TODAY MIXING A FACTUAL AND
IN SOME WAYS, UNDERSTATED
PRESENTATION WITH THE EMOTION WE
SAW CONGRESSWOMAN MADELEINE DEAN
FROM PENNSYLVANIA SHE RECALLED
THE EVENTS OF JANUARY 6, BREAK
DOWN EMOTIONALLY. ALL OF THAT IS
PART OF MAKING AN EFFECTIVE
CASE. BUT I THINK WHAT IT COMES
DOWN TO IS
WHAT ONE OF THE MANAGER TEAMS
SAID TO ME JUST BEFORE, HE SAID,
"THE BEST WAY TO SUMMARIZE OUR
CASE, WHAT WE ARE PRESENTING
HERE IS THAT IT WAS DONALD
TRUMP, QUOTING LIZ CHENEY, THE
REPUBLICAN LEADER, "IT WAS
DONALD TRUMP WHO ASSEMBLED THE
MOB, LIT THE FLAME OF THIS
ATTACK AND "SO YOU WANT, THEY
HAVE BROUGHT FORTH TODAY A SORT
OF SYSTEMATIC FASHION
THE NATURE OF THE ATTACK, HOW
SEVERE IT WAS AND LINKED IT
ESPECIALLY IN THE PRESENTATIONS
EARLIER TODAY TO DONALD TRUMP'S
WORDS AND DONALD TRUMP'S
ACTIONS.
&gt;&gt; LET'S NOW BRING IN
OUR COLLEAGUE, HANNAH JEWELL WHO
HAS BEEN REPORTING ON THE
AMERICANS WHO MADE UP THAT MOB
THAT ATTACKED THE CAPITAL.
HANNAH, THE PROSECUTION RELIED
TODAY ON COURT DOCUMENTS AND
INTERVIEWS AND EVEN SOCIAL MEDIA
POST FROM MEMBERS OF THAT MOD
WHO CITED PRESIDENT TRUMP AS
THEIR MOTIVATION FOR ACTION SO
WHAT HAVE YOU HEARD TODAY THAT
STANDS OUT?
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN SEE HOW THE
STATEMENTS FROM RIOTERS  ARE
USED TO CREATE A TIMELINE OF
EVERYTHING THAT HAPPENED AND WE
CONTINUE TO LEARN ABOUT WHO
THESE RIOTERS ARE AND  HOW THEY
FELT OVERTIME BY THE PRESIDENT
SPECIFICALLY SO WE HAD VIRGIN
ISLAND DELEGATE AND IMPEACHMENT
MANAGER, STACEY PLASKETT WHO
DREW A LINE FROM THE CAPITAL
ATTACK CAPITOL ATTACK BACK TO
TIMES WHEN TRUMP SUPPORTERS HAD
DONE ISLAND ACTS AND RECEIVED
THE PRAISE AND RECOVERING
ENCOURAGEMENT FROM THE
PRESIDENT.
AND THEN IN OCTOBER WHEN TRUMP
SUPPORTERS APPEARED TO ATTEMPT
TO RUN A BUS OFF THE FREEWAY IN
TEXAS AND SHE ALSO THEN SHARED A
TRUMP TWEET ON OCTOBER 31 THAT
SHOWED THAT INCIDENT WITH THE
WORDS THAT HE LOVED TEXAS, TEXAS
MUSIC BUT HE ADDED TO IT, IT WAS
VERY FESTIVE AND CELEBRATORY AND
THE NEXT DAY HE TWEETED AGAIN,
"IN MY OPINION, THESE PATRIOTS
DID NOTHING WRONG." SO SHE
REALLY SHOWED HOW THESE
INCIDENTS
STEPPED UP EACH TIME THEY
RECEIVED THIS FEEDBACK FROM THE
PRESIDENT. SHE SHOWED HOW THE
ORGANIZER OF THAT SO-CALLED
TRUMP TRAIN THAT TRIED TO RUN A
BUS OFF THE FREEWAY IN TEXAS, A
CAPITAL RIOTER NAMED KEITH LEE
WENT ON TO FUND RAISE FOR THE
JANUARY 6 ATTACK
AND ON THAT MORNING OF JANUARY
6, HE USED A BULLHORN TO DIRECT
THE CROWD SHOUTING THAT THEY
NEEDED TO SURROUND THE CAPITAL
AND IT IS JUST AN EXAMPLE OF HOW
THE RIOTERS WERE ABLE TO BUILD
UP THEIR RESOURCES  FIRST OF ALL
AND ALSO THEIR INSPIRATION AND
THEIR ACUITY OVERTIME AND ALSO
MENTIONED TRUMP TWEETED ON
JANUARY 12, "WE HAVE JUST BEGUN
TO FIGHT "JUST BEFORE THAT DAY
IN MID DECEMBER SO-CALLED
MILLION IN MARCH. THERE HAVE
BEEN A LOT OF VIOLENCE AFTER
THAT RALLY ACROSS DOWNTOWN DC
AND BEYOND. THIS INCLUDES A
PROUD BOY LEADER WHO VANDALIZED
CHURCHES AND WAS ARRESTED.
THERE WAS A LIVE STREAM FROM THE
PROUD BOYS ON THE DAY OF THE
CAPITOL RIOT. THEY MENTIONED HIS
ARREST AS PART OF THEIR
MOTIVATION AND ALSO REFERENCED
THEIR MEMBERS BEING STABBED
COME UP PEOPLE WERE STABBED IN
THE VIOLENCE FOLLOWING DECEMBER
12. IN FACT WE HAD REPORTED IN A
POST THAT SOME TABLETS -- THE
PROUD BOYS WHO HAD BEEN AT THE
CAPITOL ON JANUARY 6 HAD TURNED
ON DC POLICE AS REVENGE FOR THE
STABBING AND INDICATED THAT IN
THEIR STANCE CHANCE. IT ALSO
REFERENCED MANY TIMES THE
PHRASE, "STANBACK AND STANDBY
"WHERE THE PRESIDENT SAID IN A
DEBATE WHERE HE WAS
NOT CONDEMNING THE PROUD BOYS
THEMSELVES AND PLUS USED
LANGUAGE LIKE SAYING,
THESE ARE THE PEOPLE TRUMP
CULTIVATED WERE STANDING BY SO
SHE WAS TAKING THAT LANGUAGE
FROM TRUMP'S OWN WORDS AND
SHOWING HOW THE PROUD BOYS
BASICALLY BUILT UP THEIR SENSE
OF COMMUNITY. THE TRUMP TEAM HAS
IMPLIED HE FOR TODAY THAT
PROOF OF EXACT ADVANCE PLANNING
MIGHT EXONERATE HIM IN THE BLAME
BUT IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS TODAY
ARE SHOWING IT CAN ALSO MEAN THE
OPPOSITE, REFERENCING
WALKIE-TALKIES USED BY THE PROUD
BOYS AND OTHER GROUPS, FOCUSING
ON GEAR AND TACTICAL GEAR AS
ROGER MENTIONED EARLIER.
THE FLEX CUFFS SO THE ZIP TIE
HANDCUFFS WE SAW IN THE PHOTOS
AND ALSO SHARED POSTS WEEKS
BEFORE THE ATTACK ON THE
MESSAGE BOARD THAT HAS SINCE
GONE OFF-LINE. THEY HAVE BROUGHT
UP THE FACT THAT THE TRUMP TEAM
WAS AWARE OF THIS PLANNING AND
THE MANAGERS ALSO REFERENCED THE
POST'S REPORTING OF THE FBI'S
KNOWLEDGE AND WARNING OF A
SO-CALLED WAR AT THE CAPITAL.
THERE WAS PROOF OF THIS WHICH
MANY RIOTERS ACTED IN THEIR
BEHAVIORS  BEFORE, DURING AND
AFTER THE RIOTS AND THIS IS AN
IMPUNITY THAT DEMOCRATS HAD
ALLEGED
THEY BELIEVED THEY WERE ACTING
ON THE ORDERS OF THE PRESIDENT
AND INDEED THE SUMMIT OF THAT
SOME OF THE RIOTERS  HAVE
EXPLICITLY SAID.
&gt;&gt; TOM I WANT TO BRING YOU BACK
IN ONE MORE TIME BEFORE WE LET
YOU GO. WE WERE TALKING ABOUT
THE BURDEN OF PROOF AND WHAT THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS NEED TO
SORT OF CONVINCE THESE JURORS,
THE SENATORS OFF BUT TOM,
WHAT IS THE HARDEST PART FOR
THEM? IS IT MAKING A DIRECT
CORRELATION FROM PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S WORDS TO THE ACTIONS
THAT THE ATTACKERS TOOK? IS IT
COUNTERING THE FREE-SPEECH
CLAIMS THAT HIS DEFENSE TEAM WAS
MAKING YESTERDAY? WHAT DO THEY
SEE AS THEIR TOUGHEST CHARGE
HERE?
&gt;&gt; WHEN I ASKED MEMBERS OF THE
MANAGER'S TEAM WHAT THEIR
IS GOING INTO
AS THE TRIAL OPENED THIS WEEK, I
HAD A ONE-WORD ANSWER,
CONVICTION. SO THEY ARE, AS WE
DISCUSSED
, TARGETING THOSE 17 REPUBLICAN
SENATE VOTES THAT THEY WOULD
NEED TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTION.
WHAT IS THE HARDEST CHALLENGE?
AT THE MOMENT, THE BULK OF THE
MAJORITY OF THE REPUBLICAN
SENATORS ARE TAKING THE
CONSTITUTIONAL OFFRAMP. THAT IS,
THEY ARE BUYING THE ARGUMENT
THAT IT IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL TO
TRY A PRESIDENT ONCE HE HAS LEFT
OFFICE.
IT IS A WAY FOR THEM TO, IF YOU
ADOPT THAT APPROACH, WHICH SOME
CONSTITUTIONAL SCHOLARS HAVE,
BUT THE CONSENSUS MOSTLY LIES
WITH THOSE WHO SEE IT
DIFFERENTLY. BUT IF YOU ADOPT
THAT APPROACH, IT MEANS THIS
TRIAL IS UNCONSTITUTIONAL. WE
CAN'T CONVICT A FORMER
PRESIDENT. THEREFORE, THE
EVIDENCE THAT WE ARE BEING ASKED
TO EXAMINE IS IMMATERIAL. SO YOU
COULD ARGUE AT THE FRONT END
THAT THE BIGGEST HURDLE THEY
FACE IS THIS CONSTITUTIONAL
ARGUMENT. THAT IS WHAT WE SAW,
THAT IS WHAT THE MANAGERS DEALT
WITH ON THE FIRST DAY OF THE
OPENING OF THIS TRIAL. THE
CONSENSUS
, EVEN THE CONSENSUS FROM DONALD
TRUMP IS WE REPORTED IT IN THE
WASHINGTON POST IS THAT THE
DEMOCRATIC MANAGERS DID THE MORE
EFFECTIVE JOB IN MAKING A
CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT. BUT
HAVING SAID THAT, THE OTHER
THING THESE MANAGERS NEED TO DO
IS DO WHAT WE TALKED ABOUT
EARLIER IN A TRIAL. BE
CONVINCING. GET THROUGH THE
RESISTANCE OF POLITICAL AND EVEN
THE CONSTITUTIONAL ARGUMENT TO
SORT OF PENETRATE TO THE HEART
OF THE MATTER. TODAY, THEY
SHOWED
OR THEIR PLAN WAS TO SHOW
MEMBERS OF THE SENATE, MEMBERS
OF THIS JURY INFORMATION AND
MATERIAL THEY HAD NEVER SEEN
BEFORE ABOUT A, THE RISK
UNDERTAKEN AND SUFFERED AND
UNDERTAKEN BY
CAPITOL HILL POLICE AND TWO, THE
RISK, THE BRUSH WITH DANGER THEY
THEMSELVES FACED FROM THIS MOB
SO ONE OF THE THOUGHTS IS THAT,
ONE OF THEIR GOALS TODAY WAS TO
SORT OF PENETRATE REPUBLICAN
RESISTANCE, IF YOU WILL. GET
THEM TO PAY ATTENTION AND
REALIZE HOW THIS AFFECTED THE
VITAL INSTITUTION OF THE U.S.
SENATE, U.S. CONGRESS,
CONSTITUTIONALLY MANDATED WORK
OF READING THE ELECTORAL BALLOTS
ON JANUARY 6 AND ALSO TO LOOK AT
THE SOURCE OF THIS EXTRAORDINARY
INSURRECTION THAT THEY
THEMSELVES OBSERVED AND SO THE
TASK BEFORE THEM IS BOTH LEGAL
AND CONSTITUTIONAL AND ALSO HAS
AN EMOTIONAL AND AS WE HEARD
TODAY, KIND OF A PATRIOTIC
TONE.
&gt;&gt; TOM HAMBURGER, INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTER, THANK YOU FOR JOINING
US.
&gt;&gt; JAMES LET'S GO BACK TO FOR
SOME REACTION TO WHAT TOM JUST
SAID. THE JOB OF CONVINCING 17
REPUBLICANS
THE PRESIDENT,
TO CONVICT THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES IS A BIG JOB. IN
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS LINES, IS
TODAY THE MOST IMPORTANT DAY? IS
THERE STILL MORE EVIDENCE THEY
NEED TO LAYOUT INCLUDING WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP DID IN THE
AFTERMATH OF THE INITIAL ROUND
OF THE ATTACK? WHERE DO THEY GO
FROM HERE I GUESS IN TERMS OF
TRYING TO BUILD MOMENTUM AND
KEEP THE FOCUS ON THE CHILLING
DETAILS
THEY SHARED TODAY?
&gt;&gt; THAT IS EXACTLY RIGHT, LIBBY
AND THE DEFENSE GETS THE LAST
WORD WHICH THEY KNOW THEY ARE
GOING TO GET THEIR 16 HOURS TO
GO AFTER THIS AND THERE HAVE
BEEN SO MANY TIMES OVER THE LAST
FIVE YEARS, REALLY WHERE IT
SEEMED LIKE DONALD TRUMP WAS OUT
FOR THE COUNT AND REPUBLICANS
WERE TURNING ON HIM AND THEN
MOMENTUM SORT OF SLIPPED AND
FADED AWAY EVEN WITH THIS. YOU
THINK ABOUT JANUARY 6, JUST OVER
A MONTH AGO.
McCONNELL AND -- BOTH SAID TRUMP
DESERVES THIS AND McCONNELL'S
WIFE RESIGNING IN PROTEST AND
THE REST OF THE PARTY A FEW DAYS
LATER DOESN'T REALLY COME ALONG,
THEY BOTH SORT OF BACKED OFF
WHAT THEY HAD SAID. AND I THINK
A DYNAMIC LIKE THAT IS MOST
LIKELY TO PLAY OUT HERE WHERE
RIGHT NOW, WE ARE HEARING THAT
THESE SENATORS ARE SITTING,
HAVING THEIR DINNER BREAK AND WE
HEARD CHUCK SCHUMER SAY MY
NUMBERS, MEMBERS DON'T REALLY
FEEL LIKE EATING BECAUSE THE
VIDEO WAS SO STOMACH TERMING
TURNING. ON THE OTHER SIDE,
REPUBLICANS ARE HORRIFIED BY
THIS AND HORRIFIED BY THE CLOSE
CALLS. IF YOU CAN HAVE A SECRET
VOTE, I'M NOT SURE THEY WOULD
GET TO 67 BUT THERE ARE AT LEAST
HALF A DOZEN SENATE REPUBLICANS
WHO WOULD LOOK TO CONVICT TRUMP
IF THEY COULD DO SO WITHOUT
PUTTING THEIR POLITICAL CAREERS
AT RISK OR NOT CURRENTLY
PLANNING TO DO SO AND SO I THINK
THE GOAL OF THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS, EVERYTHING TOM SAID
BUT ALSO TO FORCE THESE MEMBERS
TO SIT WITH THIS DISCOMFORT
OVERNIGHT. TOMORROW THEY WILL
HEAR MORE ABOUT
HOW TRUMP DIDN'T ACT AS THIS WAS
ALL PLAYING OUT FOR HOURS AND
HOURS. DEMOCRATS WILL MAKE THE
CASE THAT TRUMP WAS BEING QUITE
NEGLIGENT AND SO I THINK THAT
THERE WERE SOME KIND OF PERRY
MASON MOMENTS AS PAUL KANE PUT
IT EARLIER TODAY.
WHERE TRUMP MADE REPREHENSIBLE
COMMENTS ON TAPE. THEY FELL BACK
IN LINE
BUT THE QUESTION IS IS THAT
GOING TO HAPPEN AGAIN. A LOT OF
IT TRUTHFULLY THESE POLITICIANS
FOLLOW THE LEAD OF THE
CONSTITUENTS AND THE BASE OF THE
PARTY AND SO ONE OF THE REASONS
THEY HAVE ALWAYS COME BACK TO
TRUMP IS
THE BASE OF THE PARTY HAS BEEN
WITH HIM AND PERHAPS THAT CAN
START TO CHANGE.
. TRUMP DOESN'T HAVE A TWITTER
MEGAPHONE ANYMORE, IS NOT OUT
THERE PASSING POLICY AND
ULTIMATELY, THERE ARE GOING TO
BE A COUPLE OF MEMBERS ON THE
RIGHT WHO FACE REALLY TOUGH
VOTES OF CONSCIENCE AND THE MAY
NOT DO WHAT THEY WANT TO DO
WHICH IS PRIVATELY VOTE TO
CONVICT BUT THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO
WOULD HAVE TO THINK ABOUT IT
AFTER TODAY.
&gt;&gt; LET'S BRING HANNAH BACK INTO
THE CONVERSATION. WE HEARD FROM
IMPEACHMENT MANAGER PLASKETT
ABOUT ONE OF THEM IN CHARGE,
LIAM CALHOUN WHO IS A LAWYER AND
SHE SHARED A FACEBOOK POST HE
WROTE TALKING ABOUT "CRAZY
NANCY."
AND DELEGATE SWALWELL REMINDED
EVERYBODY -- PLASKETT REMINDED
EVERYBODY THAT IS WHAT DONALD
TRUMP CALLS THE SPEAKER OF THE
HOUSE, NANCY PELOSI AND THE
FACEBOOK POST DESCRIBES  GOING
THROUGH THE HOUSE AND KICKING
DOWN A DOOR
TO NANCY PELOSI'S OFFICE AND
ONLY TURNING WAY BECAUSE A
S.W.A.T. TEAM SHOWED UP. THE
MANNER OF THE FACEBOOK POST IS
SORT OF BRAGGING AND CELEBRATING
IN THE ATTACK.
WHAT IS THE IMPLICATION OF THESE
BOASTFUL SOCIAL MEDIA SHARES?
THAT ONE AND THE ONES THAT
RICHARD BARNETT PHOTOGRAPHED
SECRETLY
IN NANCY PELOSI'S OFFICE. HOW IS
THAT COMING BACK TO HAUNT THESE
INDIVIDUALS CRIMINALLY AS WELL
AS EVIDENCE IN THIS SENATE
TRIAL?
&gt;&gt; WELL ONE OF THE MOST SHOCKING
PARTS OF JANUARY 6 FOR ME
PERSONALLY JUST WATCHING AT HOME
WAS SEEING HOW, AT THE END OF
THE DAY, ALL THESE PEOPLE WERE
BEING ALLOWED TO LEAVE AND WERE
SORT OF JOVIAL AND THERE WAS
THIS DOORS BEING HELD FOR THEM
TO LEAVE THE CAPITAL AND YOU CAN
SEE IN THAT SENSE HOW MUCH, IT
FELT LIKE PEOPLE LEAVING A
FOOTBALL GAME, PEOPLE HAD GOTTEN
AWAY WITH SOMETHING. YOU COULD
TELL THE ENERGY OF THE PEOPLE
WAS THAT THEY MAY REALLY COULD
GET AWAY WITH MURDER, FRANKLY.
AS THREE PEOPLE DID THAT
, THEY DID DIE THAT DAY AND A
LOT OF THE SHOCKING THING IS WHY
ARE THESE PEOPLE BEING ARRESTED
BECAUSE WE WATCHED LIVE ALL OF
THIS VIOLENCE HAPPEN BUT NOW
THEY ARE
-- SOME OF THE LAWYERS OF THE
CAPITAL RIOTERS ARE WRITING IN
THEIR DEFENSE THAT THEY WERE LED
ASTRAY AND BY TRUMP,
AND A LAWYER WROTE HIS CLIENT
WAS FACING YEARS AND YEARS IN
PRISON AND WHILE TRUMP GOT TO
LIVE IN LUXURY WAS THE GIST OF
IT. SO YOU SEE THESE SORTS OF
IMPUNITY OF THE RIOTERS BUT THAT
END OF THE DAY, THERE ARE AROUND
200 PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN CHARGED
WITH EVERYTHING FROM
ENTRY TO LESSER CLOCK CRIMES TO
A CONSPIRACY, A MUCH MORE
SERIOUS CHARGE WHICH REQUIRES
SHOWING EVIDENCE OF PRIOR
PLANNING AND CROSSING STATE
LINES AND CONSPIRING WITH OTHERS
AS THE CHARGE SAYS AND SO I
CAN'T HELP BUT ALSO THINK ABOUT
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE
CONSEQUENCES SLOWLY CATCHING UP
WITH THESE RIOTERS FORCING OVER
THE SUMMER, WE SAW
PROTESTERS AND MANY WE REPORTED
ON AND WATCHED IN THE SUMMER OF
2020 HOW IMMEDIATELY PEOPLE WERE
ARRESTED AND HOW THEY WORK OFTEN
VERY AGGRESSIVELY ARRESTED. I
KNOW THAT YESTERDAY, TRUMP'S
ATTORNEY WAS BEGINNING TO BRING
UP BLACK LIVES MATTER
PROTESTERS, SAYING THAT PEOPLE
HAD EXPRESSED
SUPPORT FOR THOSE PROTESTS AND
SAYING THAT IS THE SAME THING AS
THESE CAPITOL RIOTERS AND  WHILE
WATCHING THIS REAL FRAME BY
FRAME, RELIVING OF THE DAY ON
THIS, YOU SEE THAT COORDINATED
VIOLENCE AGAINST THE POLICE
PARTICULARLY AND IT IS JUST SO,
I HAVE TO WONDER, ARE THE TRUMP
LAWYERS, THE TRUMP TEAM,
REWRITING THEIR REBUTTAL OR IF
THEY COULD JUST STICK ON THIS
LINE
WITH WHAT WE HAVE JUST SEEN, WE
HAVE SEEN PEOPLE SAYING, SAYING
"WHERE ARE YOU NANCY?" IT IS
REALLY EXPLICIT, INTENTIONAL
WISHES OF VIOLENCE AGAINST
LAWMAKERS. ARE THEY GOING TO
STILL SAY THAT IS THE SAME THING
, THOSE DEMOCRATS WHO SUPPORTED
RACIAL JUSTICE
PROTESTERS IN THE SUMMER?
&gt;&gt; HANNAH, THANK YOU FOR TALKING
WITH US. RHONDA COLEMAN,
PIVOTING FROM WHAT HANNAH WAS
TALKING ABOUT, WE HAVE DISCUSSED
IN THE PAST HOUR THE THREATS
SPECIFICALLY TO THE VICE
PRESIDENT. WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT
A LITTLE BIT THE THREATS TO
SPEAKER PELOSI BUT LET'S GO INTO
THAT MORE BECAUSE SOME OF THESE
SOCIAL MEDIA POSTS THEY SHARED,
SOME OF THE PHOTOGRAPHS THAT
WERE SHARED WERE FRANKLY
HORRIFYING
AND I WANT TO CITE ONE OF THE
AFFIDAVITS, THE FBI'S AFFIDAVIT
AGAINST PIZOLA. IF THEY FOUND
NANCY PELOSI OR MIKE PENCE, THEY
WOULD HAVE KILLED THEM. WHERE
DOES THAT LEAVE THE MEN AND
WOMEN IN PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
INVOLVEMENT?
&gt;&gt; THAT IS
WHAT WE JUST WATCHED AS IT'S ALL
WHAT IT TOOK TO GET PENCE OFF
THE FLOOR AND SECRET SERVICE GOT
HIM OFF THE FLOOR AND HIS FAMILY
WAS HERE AS WELL AND WE SAW,
TOO, THE GALLOWS THAT WERE BUILT
OUTSIDE THE CAPITAL ON THE LAWN
AND THE CHANCE FROM SOCIAL MEDIA
VIDEOS SAYING HANG MIKE PENCE,
HANG MIKE PENCE SO THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS TOOK A FAIR
AMOUNT OF TIME IN THIS LAST
PORTION TALKING ABOUT THE THREAT
TO PENCE SO THAT IS SORT OF AN
APPEAL TO THE REPUBLICANS IN
THAT CHAMBER TO THINK ABOUT
THAT, THAT THIS WAS THEIR
ATTORNEY'S VICE PRESIDENT WHO
WAS IN AS MUCH DANGER AS THE
REST OF THEM AND IT ALSO POINTS
OUT A REALLY IMPORTANT POINT
ABOUT JANUARY 6. THE CONTINUITY
OF OUR GOVERNMENT, EVERYONE WAS
HERE. IF SOMETHING HAPPENS TO
THE PRESIDENT, OF COURSE, NEXT
IN LINE IS THE VICE PRESIDENT.
HE WAS HERE. AFTER HEARING HIM,
YOU HAVE THE PRESIDENT OF THE
SENATE AND SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE
AND THEY WERE HERE. YOU HAVE SO
MANY OF OUR GOVERNMENT LEADERS
WHO ARE IN LINE
IF ANYTHING WERE TO HAPPEN TO
THE PRESIDENT. THEY WERE ALL
HERE. SO THIS IS ALSO SOMETHING
THAT WAS OF
THE NATURE OF A NATIONAL
SECURITY ISSUE, TOO HAVING ALL
THESE PEOPLE HERE AND ALL OF
THEM IN DANGER SO I THINK THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS CERTAINLY
WANTED TO FOCUS ON THE LEVEL OF
DANGER TO MIKE PENCE AND THE
FACT THAT HE WAS OR IS PART OF
THEIR PARTY AND HE WAS IN REALLY
GREAT DANGER. WHEN YOU READ
THESE AFFIDAVITS AND WHEN YOU
SEE THOSE PHOTOS FROM THE CHANT
S AND GALLOWS BUILT ON THE
CAPITOL LAWN.
&gt;&gt; BRIEFLY ON THAT POINT IT DID
SEEM LIKE DELEGATE PLASKETT WAS
MAKING THESE SENATORS , MAKE A
CHOICE. ARE YOU ONE MIKE PENCE'S
I DOE RUN DONALD TRUMP'S
SIDE. SHE REALLY CREATED A
SCHISM BETWEEN THE TWO, POINT
OUT THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN
THEM, REPEATEDLY REFERRED TO THE
PRESIDENT VERSUS THE VICE
PRESIDENT AND TALKED ABOUT MIKE
PENCE'S PATRIOTISM, HIS FAMILY,
BEING THERE WITH HIM AND REALLY
EMPHASIZING HE WAS WITH HIS
FAMILY. SO WHAT DOES THAT DO
POLITICALLY FOR THE SENATORS AS
THEY LOOK AT THAT DICHOTOMY?
&gt;&gt; IT DOES SORT OF POINT OUT
SOME OF THE DIVISIONS IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY IN THIS WHOLE
QUESTION OF
&gt;&gt;&gt; FOR THEIR OWN DO POLITICAL
THEY FUTURES, REMAIN OR LOYAL DO
TO THEY DONALD START TRUMP
TEARING AWAY FOR FROM HIM
REASONS OF THEIR AND OWN ISOLATE
POLITICAL FUTURES OR DO THEY
START TURN AWAY FROM  HIM AND
TRUMP AND ISOLATE TRUMP TRUMP IS
AND AS TRUMPISM. SOMETHING
SEPARATE FROM THE REPUBLICAN
PARTY. I THINK THAT MAY BE AT
THE HEART OF PERHAPS STACY
PLASKETT WAS GETTING THEM TO SEE
IS THAT RIGHT NOW, DONALD TRUMP
IS NO LONGER PRESIDENT, HE IS
NOT THE STANDARD, HOWEVER THEY
NEED TO CONSIDER ARE THEY GOING
TO GO WITH SOMEONE MORE OF AN
ESTABLISHED REPUBLICAN THEN MIKE
PENCE AND SEEING THE GREAT
DANGER HE IS IN OR WILL THEY
CONTINUE TRUMP-ISM REPRESENTED
AMONG THE PEOPLE THERE WITH THE
TIES AND  START GUNS IN HERE TO
THE DANGER.
&gt;&gt; JOINING US IS JOYCE CALL
POLITICAL VIDEO REPORTER. WHAT
HAS THAT OUT TO YOU IN THIS
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL?
&gt;&gt; YOU AND RHONDA WILL
TALKING ABOUT DELEGATE PLASKETT.
SHE HAD THE FLOOR FOR A LARGE
PORTION OF THE DAY. HER JOB ON
THE FLOOR WAS TO WALK THROUGH
EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED. THERE
WERE MOMENTS WHERE SHE WAS
WALKING THROUGH THE DETAILS. YOU
CAN SEE THE MODELS OF THE
CAPITAL WITH THE RED DOT THAT
SIGNIFIED THE INSURRECTIONIST
WERE GOING IN THE PAST TO THE
FLOORS OF THE HOUSE AND SENATE.
SHE HAD THIS MOMENT TOWARDS THE
END OF HER REMARKS WERE SHE SAID
LOOKING AT THE MODELS REMINDED
HER OF THE ATTACKS ON SEPTEMBER
11th. SHE TALKED ABOUT AT THE
TIME JUST BEING A STAFFER ON THE
HILL. SHE SAID SHE WAS ON THE
HOUSE SIDE AND SHE MADE THIS
EMOTIONAL AND COMPELLING
RECOLLECTION OF WHAT THAT DAY
WAS LIKE WHEN THE CAPITOL WAS
ALMOST ATTACKED  AND SHE SAID
SHE REMEMBERS THE 44 AMERICANS
WHO WERE ON BOARD, ONE OF THE
HIJACKED PLANES HEADED TOWARDS
THE CAPITAL THAT ENDED UP BEING
DIVERTED. SHE SAID SHE COULD
HAVE LOST HER LIFE THAT THEY.
WHAT SHE WAS DOING IN THAT
MOMENT WAS DRAWING A COMPARISON
BETWEEN THIS ATTACK ON THE
CAPITAL WHERE A MOB OF TRUMP
SUPPORTERS AND SUCCESSFULLY
ATTACK THE CAPITOL AND ENDED UP
BEING A DEADLY MOMENT. THIS
ATTACK NEARLY HAPPENED WITH
FOREIGN TERRORIST
IF IT WERE NOT FOR THOSE BRAVE
AMERICANS ON BOARD THAT PLANE ON
SEPTEMBER 11th. TAKE A LISTEN TO
A BIT MORE OF WHAT SHE HAD TO
SAY.
&gt;&gt; THE CAPITOL STANDS BECAUSE OF
PEOPLE LIKE THAT . THIS CAPITAL
CONCEIVED BY OUR FOUNDING
FATHERS THAT WAS BUILT BY SLAVES
THAT REMAINS THROUGH THE
SACRIFICE OF SERVICE, MEN AND
WOMEN AROUND THE WORLD. WHEN I
THINK OF THAT, AND I THINK OF
THESE INSURGENTS, THESE IMAGES
, INCITED BY OUR OWN PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES ATTACKING
THIS CAPITAL TO STOP THE
CERTIFICATION OF A PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION
, OUR DEMOCRACY, OUR REPUBLIC.
&gt;&gt; I THINK ONE OF THE MOST
STRIKING THINGS ABOUT THE TOWN
OF TODAY WATCHING THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS PRESENT
THEIR ARGUMENTS IS JUST HOW
MEASURED THEY WERE. THIS IS NOT
JUST A DELEGATE PLASKETT BUT WE
HEARD THIS TOWN REPLICATED
THROUGHOUT ALL OF THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AS THEY
PRESENTED THEIR ARGUMENTS AND
WALKED SENATORS THROUGH WHAT
HAPPENED THAT DAY. THERE WAS NO
CHARACTERIZATION OF TRUMP BEYOND
DESCRIBING EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED
AND LAYOUT EVIDENCE IMMEDIATELY
AFTER TELLING THE STORY OF
STEP-BY-STEP WHAT HAPPENED THAT
DAY AND HOW THE INSURRECTIONIST
GOT INSIDE THE CAPITOL AND THE
VIOLENCE THAT WE SAW ON JANUARY
6 . IN TERMS OF TALKING
9/11, THAT WAS A HORRIFYING DAY
AND REALLY TIME IN OUR NATIONS
HISTORY. ONE THING THAT
AMERICANS REMEMBER FROM THAT
TIME IS HOW UNIFIED THE COUNTRY
WAS AND I AND THAT DELEGATE
PLASKETT AND BRINGING UP 9/11
WAS REMINDING SENATORS
ESPECIALLY ON THE REPUBLICAN
SIDE OF THE UNITY DURING A TIME
WHEN THE COUNTRY FACED ATTACKS
AND SIMILARLY WHEN, REGARDLESS
OF WHAT SIDE THE AISLE YOU WERE
ON, SHE WAS TALKING ABOUT VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE FOR A LARGE
PORTION OF HER SPEECH THAT ALL
OF THE MEMBERS AND STAFFERS AND
REPORTERS IN THAT BUILDING WERE
UNDER ATTACK, LIBBY.
&gt;&gt; JALISCO, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
JAMES, LET'S GO TO YOU TO FOLLOW
UP ON THE POINTS JOYCE WAS
MAKING BECAUSE THERE WERE MANY
IMPORTANT OBSERVATIONS THERE
ABOUT THE MEASURED TONE AND THE
EMOTIONAL GUT PUNCHED THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE MAKING
TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY, THERE IS NO DOUBT
IT HAD A STRONG, EMOTIONAL
EFFECT ON EVERYONE. THE KEY
CHALLENGE WILL BE FOR TRUMP'S
DEFENSE IS TO STIPULATE THAT THE
RIOT WAS TERRIBLE. THEY HAVE TO
FOCUS ON THE PROCEDURAL OFF
RAMPS AND THEY HAVE TO FOCUS ON
THE IDEA THAT THESE PEOPLE, EVEN
IF THEY WERE PROVOKED BY TRUMP
DID NOT ACT ON TRUMP'S BEHALF
THAT THIS CONDUCT IS
INDEFENSIBLE. WE HEARD THAT FROM
BRUCE CASTOR AT THE START OF HIS
PRESENTATION. HE SAID THEY WOULD
STIPULATE THIS IS TERRIBLE. AS
WE ARE SEEING REPORTERS WE TALK,
YOU ARE SEEING SENATORS LIKE TED
CRUZ ONE OF THE TWO MAIN
REPUBLICANS LEADING THE
OBJECTION TO CERTIFYING THE
ELECTORAL COLLEGE SAYING THESE
WERE TERRORIST, NONE OF US
SUPPORT TERRORISM. YOU ARE
SEEING REPUBLICANS
WHO ARE EMOTIONALLY TALKING
ABOUT HOW EUGENE GOODMAN IS A
HERO AND THEY WANT TO BUY HIM A
BEER. THAT WILL BE THE NEEDLE
THEY ARE TRYING TO THREAD. I DO
NOT KNOW IF THAT WORKS IN THE
OPINION BUT THEY ARE GOING TO
HAVE TO LEAN AND HARD ON THE
IDEA HARD THAT THEY DO NOT
CONDONE MISCONDUCT INSIDE THE
CAPITOL AND TO SEPARATE  TRUMP
AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
THAT IS WHY WE SAW MANY HOURS
THE LENGTH OF THE PREDICATE TO
WHAT TRUMP SAID BEFORE EVERYONE
CAME TO THE CAPITOL  BEFORE WE
SELL ALL OF THE IS NEVER BEFORE
SEEN FOOTAGE THIS EVENING. IT
WILL BE INTERESTING TO SEE HOW
THE PRESIDENT'S DEFENSE TEAM,
WHEN THEY GET THEIR 16 HOURS,
EXPLAINS TRUMP DOING AND SLOW
WALKING ON REQUESTS FOR AID FROM
A LOT OF THESE REPUBLICAN
SENATORS THAT ARE NOW JURORS IN
HIS TRIAL.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, HOW MUCH SORT OF
SECOND RECONSIDERATION ARE WE
SEEING FROM REPUBLICANS AT THIS
POINT? OBVIOUSLY, LOUISIANA
SENATOR BILL CASSIDY TOOK A
DIFFERENT STANCE ON THE SECOND
VOTE ESSENTIALLY ON WHETHER THIS
WAS CONSTITUTIONAL NOW SAYING IT
IS. I AM WONDERING ABOUT
JIM LANGFORD, WHO WE HAVE SEEN
IN THESE IMAGES BECAUSE HE WAS
TALKING WHEN THIS WENT DOWN. NBC
REPORTER LEON CALDWELL, THERE ON
THE GROUND, WAS POINTING OUT
LANGFORD LOOKED EMOTIONAL AS
THEY TOOK THE DINNER BREAK. SHE
WRITES HE WAS HUDDLED WITH
ANOTHER SENATOR, SENATOR DAINES
AND THEY WERE HAVING A MOMENT
TOGETHER. LANGFORD, AFTER THE
JANUARY 6 A JACK, APOLOGIZED TO
BLACK TOLSON'S AND SAID HE DID
NOT REALIZE TRYING TO NULLIFY
THE ELECTION RESULTS FROM STATES
LIKE MICHIGAN, GEORGIA, WITH
STRONG BLACK SENATORS OF DETROIT
AND ATLANTA WOULD BE IN EFFECT
TRYING TO DISENFRANCHISE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN VOTERS IN THIS
COUNTRY. HE WAS PART OF THAT
REPUBLICAN EFFORT
TO DENY THE VALIDITY OF THE
ELECTION. IT IS IMPORTANT TO
POINT OUT HE WAS FACING BACKLASH
IN OKLAHOMA INCLUDING BEING
KICKED OFF WITH A PROJECT THERE
HONORING THE MASSACRE.
&gt;&gt; YOU ARE RIGHT. IT WOULD BE
QUITE A DRAMATIC SWING TO
NULLIFY THE RESULTS OF THE
ELECTION TO REMOVE TRUMP FOR
INFIGHTING WHAT HAPPENED. THERE
IS NO PUBLIC INDICATION. SO FAR,
WE ARE WATCHING THE SIX WHO
VOTED TO PROCEED WITH THE
CONSTITUTION OF THE TRIAL. WE
SAW A LISA MURKOWSKI FROM ALASKA
COME OUT. ULTIMATELY, THOSE ARE
NOT CERTAIN VOTES. SHE IS
KEEPING THE DOOR OPEN AND WANTS
TO HEAR HIM UP FOR REELECTION IN
2020 TWO.
IT ALWAYS SEEMED IF THERE WAS A
CHANCE TO GET 17 REPUBLICANS TO
BREAK RANKS, IT WOULD BE IN A
CLUB. THERE IS THIS HARD GROUP
CORE OF HALF A DOZEN ROMNEY,
THEN SAYS, LISA MURKOWSKI, SUSAN
COLLINS, WE DID NOT ANTICIPATE
BILL CASSIDY TO BE A PART OF
THAT BUT THERE ARE A BUNCH OF
OTHERS WHO SORT OF, IN THEIR
HEART OF HEARTS, WOULD CERTAINLY
LIKE TO VOTE TO CONVICT TRUMP,
BUT THEY WILL NOT WALK THE PLANK
ON THEIR OWN. THE NAME A LOT OF
PEOPLE ARE TALKING ABOUT, I'M
GETTING A LOT OF TECH ABOUT
REPUBLICAN OPERATIVES IS MITCH
McCONNELL. IF MITCH McCONNELL,
WHO BACKED AWAY FROM THIS EARLY
OPENNESS TO POTENTIALLY
CONVICTING TRUMP, IF MITCH
McCONNELL CAN OUT OF THIS AND
SAID LET'S CONVICT TRUMP, I
THINK YOU WOULD SEE PROBABLY
HAVE A DOZEN OTHER REPUBLICANS
SHAKE LOOSE. MAYBE YOU WOULD GET
UP TO 17. JOHN CORNYN WAS
TALKING TO REPORTERS.
&gt;&gt; LET'S HEAR SENATOR CASSIDY
REALLY QUICK.
&gt;&gt; A PEACEFUL TRANSFER OF POWER
AND THAT SHOULD GIVE ANYONE WHO
LOVES OUR REPUBLIC GREAT CAUSE
.
&gt;&gt; I DID NOT CATCH THE BEGINNING
BUT SOUNDED LIKE HE WAS TALKING
ABOUT CONCERNS AND INTERRUPTION
OF THE POWER WHICH SHOULD GIVE
ALL AMERICANS, THAT IS SENATOR
CASSIDY, THE REPUBLICAN FROM
LOUISIANA WHO VOTED WITH THE
DEMOCRATS YESTERDAY TO SAY THIS
PROCESS IS CONSTITUTIONAL.
SORRY, GO AHEAD.
&gt;&gt; WE DO NOT KNOW IF HE WILL
VOTE TO CONVICT TRUMP. THAT
WOULD BE A SURPRISING MOVE,
SIGNIFICANT VOTE EVEN THOUGH HE
DOES NOT FACE VOTERS UNTIL 2026.
SOME OTHER VOTERS VOTING THIS IS
NOT CONSTITUTIONAL BUT STILL
COULD BE IN PLAY ARE THE FOUR
SENATORS WHO HAVE ANNOUNCED
THEIR RETIREMENT. FROM
PENNSYLVANIA, DID VOTE TO ALLOW
THE CONSTITUTIONALITY OF THE
TRIAL BUT THE THREE WERE
RETIRING SENATORS BUT COULD, IN
THEORY, VOTE FOR RICHARD FOR
ALABAMA, RICHARD BROWER FROM
NORTH CAROLINA AND ROB PORTMAN
FROM OHIO. ALL THREE OF THOSE
GUYS ARE INSTITUTIONALLY MINDED,
HAVE BEEN IN CONGRESS FOR A LONG
TIME AND IF YOU WERE GOING TO
SEE MOVEMENT TO GET UP TO 17
REPUBLICAN DEFECTIONS, THOSE
THREE GENTLEMEN WOULD ALMOST BE
PART OF THAT GROUP
.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA COLVIN, WE JUST TO
SENATOR WARNOCK, THE SECOND TIME
TODAY, RHONDA, I WAS SEEING
WHERE HE WAS TRYING TO GO, WHICH
WAS A LIGHTER MOMENT IN THIS
HEAVY DAY AS WE WATCHED THE
SENATORS, BACK IN TOGETHER IN
THE CHAMBER.
HIT THE GROUND RUNNING AND A
SHOCKING WAY TO START YOUR
CAREER FOR THESE FRESHMEN,
SENATOR WARNOCK AMONG THEM,
RHONDA.
&gt;&gt; I THOUGHT THAT, TOO. THAT'S
THE SECOND TIME HE SEEMED TO
POINT AND ASKED IF THAT IS WHERE
HE SHOULD GO. THIS IS THE SECOND
OR THIRD WEEK IN SCHOOL FOR HIM
AS WELL AS A FEW MEMBERS OF THE
SENATE WHO WERE JUST SWORN IN.
THEY ARE PART OF THE GROUP I AM
WATCHING, TOO. EVEN THOUGH HE IS
A DEMOCRAT, RAFAEL WARNOCK AS
WELL AS MARK KELLY FROM ARIZONA,
THOSE WERE TWO SENATE RACES,
CLOSE SENATE RACES WE WERE
WATCHING, THEY WILL BE UP FOR
REELECTION IN 2022, THE NEXT
CYCLE. THEY ARE FILLING OUT A
TEXT-JOHN McCAIN'S CASE, PASSED
AWAY. I AM WONDERING HOW THEY
ALSO APPROACHED SOMETHING AS A
IMPEACHMENT AND THAT BEING ONE
OF THEIR FIRST BIG VOTES. IT IS
SOMETHING THAT A LOT OF SENATORS
AND HOUSE MEMBERS WHEN THEY TAKE
THEIR IMPEACHMENT VOTE HAVE TO
CONSIDER BECAUSE IT IS ON THE
RECORD, IT IS A HISTORICAL
MOMENT. TO START YOUR SENATE
CAREER OFF WITH A BIG VOTE LIKE
THIS, IT IS SOMETHING TO WATCH
TO SEE HOW THEY HANDLE THIS. I
DON'T THINK ANY OF THE NEW
SENATORS WANTED TO START OFF
THEIR CAREERS WITH, I THINK WE
WILL GO TO THE CHAMBER.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA COLEMAN, JAMES, THANK
YOU SO MUCH. LET'S GO TO THE
SENATE FLOOR AND IMPEACHMENT
LEADER RASKIN.
&gt;&gt; NOW REMIND US OF WHAT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP WAS DOING
DURING THE ATTACK, THEY WILL
SHOW HOW HE CONTINUED TO STOKE
THE INSURRECTION AND REFUSED TO
SPEAK OUT AGAINST THE VIOLENCE
OR HAVE ANYTHING TO STOP IT.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, DISTINGUISHED
SENATORS, YOU JUST HEARD FROM MY
COLLEAGUES ABOUT THE HARROWING
EVENTS THAT HAPPENED HERE AT THE
CAPITOL ON JANUARY 6th  AND SAW
THE DISTURBING VIDEO. I WOULD
LIKE TO TURN YOUR ATTENTION TO
WHAT WAS HAPPENING ON THE OTHER
END OF PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE AT
THE WHITE HOUSE. THE TRUTH IS,
THE FACTS ARE, THAT ON JANUARY
6th, DONALD TRUMP DID NOT ONCE
CONDEMN THIS ATTACK. HE DID NOT
ONCE CONDEMN THE ATTACKERS
. ON JANUARY 6th, THE ONLY
PERSON HE CONDEMNED WAS HIS OWN
VICE PRESIDENT, MIKE PENCE, WHO
WAS HIDING IN THIS BUILDING WITH
HIS FAMILY IN FEAR FOR HIS LIFE.
THE FIRST CRUCIAL HOURS OF THIS
VIOLENT ATTACK, HE DID NOTHING
TO STOP IT, NOTHING TO HELP US.
BY ALL ACCOUNTS FROM THE PEOPLE
AROUND HIM, HE WAS DELIGHTED.
HERE IS THE LAST THING DONALD
TRUMP SAID THAT THEY. YOU MIGHT
REMEMBER THIS FROM EMOTIONS
PRESENTATION IN THE WEEK, AT
6:00 P.M., ON JANUARY 6th, AFTER
ALL OF THE DESTRUCTION THAT YOU
JUST SAW, THE CAPITOL POLICE AND
THE NATIONAL GUARD FIGHTING TO
SECURE THIS BUILDING, HERE IS
WHAT DONALD TRUMP TWEETED, THESE
ARE THE THINGS AND EVENTS THAT
HAPPEN WHEN A SACRED LANDSLIDE
ELECTION VICTORY IS SO
UNCEREMONIOUSLY AND VICIOUSLY
STRIPPED AWAY FROM GREAT
PATRIOTS THAT HAVE BEEN BADLY
AND UNFAIRLY TREATED FOR SO
LONG. GO HOME WITH LOVE AND IN
PEACE, REMEMBER THIS DAY
FOREVER.
HE GOT WHAT HE INCITED AND
ACCORDING TO DONALD TRUMP, WE
GOT WHAT WE DESERVED. DONALD
TRUMP'S INCITEMENT OF THIS
INSURRECTION INCLUDING HIS
DERELICTION OF HIS DUTY OF
COMMANDER IN CHIEF
, IS COMPLETE REFUSAL TO CONDEMN
THE ATTACK WHILE IT WAS GOING ON
AND HAS CONTINUED IN FRONT OF
THE VIOLENCE DURING THE ATTACK
REQUIRE IMPEACHMENT
. LET'S TURN TO PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP'S CONDUCT THAT DAY, I WANT
TO START AT THE BEGINNING WHEN
HE ADDRESSED HIS THOUSANDS OF
GREAT PATRIOTS AS HE CALLED THEM
THAT MORNING, AROUND NOON,
DONALD TRUMP BEGIN SPEAKING AS
RALLIED JUST ON PENNSYLVANIA
AVENUE. EVEN BEFORE DONALD TRUMP
FINISHED SPEAKING, HIS
SUPPORTERS BEGAN TO WALK DOWN
TOWARD THE CAPITAL AND THEY WERE
STARTING TO CHANT "STOP THE
STEEL, STORM THE CAPITOL, INVADE
THE CAPITAL,  FIGHT FOR TRUMP."
BY 12:53 P.M., THEY HAD
VIOLENTLY FORCED THEIR WAY
THROUGH THE BARRICADE AT THE
CAPITOL.  ABOUT 1:00 THAT DAY,
WITH THIS CHAOS JUST STARTING,
SPEAKER PELOSI, AS THE
CONSTITUTION REQUIRES, FORMALLY
COMMENCED THE PROCESS BY WHICH
THE CHAMBER CERTIFY THE ELECTION
RESULTS. WITHIN 10 MINUTES, AT
1:11 P.M., AS IF ALMOST ON CUE,
DONALD TRUMP CONCLUDED HIS
SPEECH WITH HIS FINAL REMINDER
TO THE THOUSANDS GATHERED THERE
AND IT WAS TIME TO GO TO THE
CAPITOL, LET'S WATCH.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE GOING TO THE CAPITOL
AND WE WILL TRY AND GIVE , BUT
WE WILL TRY AND GIVE OUR
REPUBLICANS THE WEAK ONES
BECAUSE THE STRONG ONES DON'T
NEED ANY OF OUR HELP. WE ARE
GOING TO TRY TO GIVE THEM THE
KIND OF PRIDE AND BOLDNESS THAT
THEY NEED TO TAKE BACK OUR
COUNTRY. LET'S WALK ON
PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE, I WANT TO
THANK YOU ALL, GOD BLESS YOU,
AND GOD BLESS AMERICA. THANK YOU
ALL FOR BEING HERE. THIS IS
INCREDIBLE, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; YOU HAVE SEEN WHAT HAPPENED
WHEN THESE SUPPORTERS FOLLOWING
HIS ORDERS ARRIVE AT THE CAPITOL
BUT I WANT TO LOOK AT WHAT
HAPPENED  NEXT. YOU RECALLED
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP SAID WE
ARE GOING TO THE CAPITOL
SUGGESTING  HE WAS GOING TO GO
WITH THIS CROWD. THAT WAS NOT
TRUE. LET'S HEAR WHAT HE SAID.
&gt;&gt; IT IS UP TO CONGRESS TO
CONFRONT THIS EGREGIOUS ASSAULT
ON A DEMOCRACY AND AFTER THIS,
WE WILL WALK DOWN AND I WILL BE
THERE WITH YOU, WE WILL WALK
DOWN,
ANYONE YOU WANT, BUT I THINK
RIGHT HERE, WE WILL WALK DOWN TO
THE CAPITOL .
&gt;&gt; THIS OF COURSE WAS NOT TRUE,
THEY DID NOT GO WITH HIM TO THE
CAPITAL. HE LEFT AND WENT BACK
TO THE WHITE HOUSE. WHILE HE WAS
ON ROUTE TO THE WHITE HOUSE,
VIOLENCE REALLY BEGAN TO GROW AT
THE CAPITOL.  WITHIN MINUTES OF
DONALD TRUMP'S SPEECH AND THEN,
THERE WAS SIGNIFICANT REPORTS OF
ESCALATING VIOLENCE THAT BEGAN
TO SURFACE, BUILDINGS AROUND THE
CAPITOL  WERE STARTING TO BE
EVACUATED. BY 1:15, A EXPLOSIVE
DEVICE WAS FOUND AT THE DNC, A
PIPE BOMB HAD BEEN FOUND AT THE
RNC, ABOUT 15 MINUTES EARLIER.
THE HOUSE SERGEANT AT ARMS HAD
CALLED FOR IMMEDIATE ASSISTANCE
. AT 1:34 P.M., THE MAYOR OF
WASHINGTON, D.C. CALLED FOR
ADDITIONAL NATIONAL GUARD TROOPS
. I WILL NOT GO THROUGH ALL OF
THE DETAILS OF THE VIOLENCE THAT
UNFOLDED HERE, YOU JUST SAW
THAT. AS WE WALK THROUGH WHAT
OUR COMMANDER IN CHIEF DID THAT
DAY, VERY CLEAR, ABOUT EXACTLY
WHAT WAS HAPPENING HERE AT THE
SAME TIME
.
OVERWHELMING LAW ENFORCEMENT AND
HE DID NOTHING. WE HEARD NOTHING
FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES. WE DID NOT HEAR ANYTHING
FROM DONALD TRUMP UNTIL 1:49
P.M. AND WHILE ALL OF THIS WAS
UNFOLDING, PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP SET OUT A. THIS WAS THE
FIRST THING HE DID WHEN HE WENT
TO THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL,
ALL OF THE MEMBERS OF CONGRESS ,
HIS OWN VICE PRESIDENT WAS UNDER
VIOLENT ATTACK. WHAT WAS THAT
TWEET
? NEARLY AN HOUR AFTER THE
RIOTERS BREACHED THE CAPITAL
PERIMETER AT 1:49, DONALD TRUMP
RELEASED A PROPAGANDA REAL OF
HIS SAVE AMERICA SPEECH THAT HE
HAD GIVEN AN HOUR BEFORE. I WANT
TO BE CLEAR, THE EVENTS I JUST
DESCRIBED,
THE RIOTERS ARE BREACHING THE
CAPITAL, ATTACKING LAW
ENFORCEMENT, THE VIOLENCE IS
BROADCAST ALL OVER THE
TELEVISION FOR THE WHOLE WORLD
TO SEE INCLUDING THE PRESIDENT
OF THE UNITED STATES. I WANT TO
SHOW YOU THIS IS WHAT WAS
HAPPENING RIGHT BEFORE DONALD
TRUMP SENT THE VIDEO OUT AGAIN
AND AS HE DOES IT
.
&gt;&gt; OUR COUNTRY HAS HAD ENOUGH.
WE WILL NOT TAKE IT ANYMORE.
THIS IS WHAT THIS IS ALL ABOUT.
TO USE A FAVORITE TERM THAT ALL
OF YOU PEOPLE REALLY CAME UP
WITH, WE WILL STOP THE STEAL ,
BECAUSE YOU WILL NEVER TAKE BACK
OUR COUNTRY WITH WEAKNESS, YOU
HAVE TO SHOW STRENGTH AND YOU
HAVE TO BE STRONG
.
&gt;&gt; EVEN IF PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP CLAIMS HE DID NOT KNOW THE
EXTENT OF THE VIOLENCE THAT
WOULD FOLLOW HIS SPEECH, IT WAS
NOT HAPPENING IN PLAINVIEW,
BROADCAST ON TELEVISION, HIS
SUPPORTERS WERE ATTACKING LAW
ENFORCEMENT, THE MAYOR AND THE
POLICE CHIEF WERE CALLING FOR
HELP, MEMBERS OF CONGRESS AND
THE VICE PRESIDENT WERE INSIDE
SCARED FOR THEIR LIVES. HE DOES
NOT SEND HELP, DOES NOT TRY TO
STOP IT, DOES NOT ACKNOWLEDGE WE
DID THE VIDEO OF THE SPEECH THAT
HE HAD GIVEN BEFORE, THE
INCLUDED LANGUAGE LIKE OUR
COUNTRY HAS HAD ENOUGH. WE WILL
NOT TAKE IT ANYMORE. THAT IS
WHAT THIS IS ALL ABOUT, YOU HAVE
TO BE STRONG. THOSE AROUND
DONALD TRUMP, AS LATER REPORTED,
WERE DISCUSSED IN. HAS ADVISERS,
THOSE WORKING FOR HIM, FORMER
OFFICIALS AND EVEN HIS FAMILY
WERE BEGGING HIM TO DO
SOMETHING. KELLYANNE CONWAY, THE
PRESIDENT'S CONWAY SAID TO ADD
HER NAME TO THE COURSE OF AID
URGING DONALD TRUMP TO TAKE
ACTION. IVANKA TRUMP, THE
PRESIDENT'S OWN DAUGHTER, WENT
TO THE OVAL OFFICE AS SOON AS
THE RIOTING ESCALATED. AS
CONCERNED
CONFIRMED BY SENATOR GRAHAM,
TRYING TO GET PRESIDENT TRUMP TO
SPEAK OUT FOR EVERYONE TO LEAVE.
MINORITY LEADER KEVIN McCARTHY
CALLED JARED KUSHNER PLEADING
WITH HIM TO PERSUADE TRUMP TO
ISSUE A STATEMENT OR
TO DO SOMETHING AND SO, TOO,
WENT DOWN TO THE WHITE HOUSE
AFTER THAT CALL. IT WAS NOT JUST
THE PEOPLE AT THE WHITE HOUSE.
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS FROM BOTH
PARTIES, WHO WERE TRAPPED HERE
CALLING THE WHITE HOUSE TO ASK
FOR HELP. SOME MEMBERS APPEALED
DIRECTLY TO DONALD TRUMP. THESE
MEMBERS WHO HAD "BEEN WILL TRUMP
SUPPORTERS AND WILLING TO VOTE
AGAINST THE ELECTORAL COLLEGE
RESULTS WERE NOW SCARED FOR
THEIR LIVES." MINORITY LEADER
KEVIN McCARTHY REPEATEDLY EVEN
GOT INTO A SCREAMING MATCH AND
THE ATTACK WAS UNDERWAY,
DEMANDING THAT TRUMP DO
SOMETHING, ISSUE A STATEMENT
DENOUNCING THE MOM
. I IMAGINE MANY OF YOU SITTING
HERE TODAY PICK UP YOUR PHONE
AND TRIED TO REACH SOMEBODY AT
THE WHITE HOUSE TO ASK FOR HELP.
THIS WAS NOT PART OF SOME
POLITICS, THESE WERE AMERICANS
FROM ALL SIDES FORCING OUR
COMMANDER IN CHIEF TO TRY TO
DEFEND AND PROTECT OUR COUNTRY.
HE WAS REQUIRED TO DO THAT. THE
EXTENT OF HOW MANY PEOPLE TRIED
TO REACH THE PRESIDENT TO GET
HIM TO ACT
IS NOT KNOWN, BUT WHAT IS CLEAR,
WHAT WE KNOW WITHOUT ANY DOUBT
IS THAT FROM THE VERY BEGINNING,
THE PEOPLE AROUND DONALD TRUMP
LOBBIED HIM TO TAKE COMMAND.
WHAT IS ALSO CLEAR IS WHAT
DONALD TRUMP, OUR COMMANDER IN
CHIEF DID IN THOSE HOURS TO
PROTECT US, NOTHING. NOT
ANYTHING. HE KNEW IT WAS
HAPPENING, THE ATTACK WAS
ON TV, WE ALL KNOW THAT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP HAD THE
POWER TO DEPUTIES. HE WAS OUR
COMMANDER IN CHIEF. HE HAD THE
POWER TO ASSESS THE SECURITY
SITUATION, AND BACKUP, AND HELP,
HE HAD INSIGHT TO THIS VIOLENT
ATTACK. THEY WERE LISTENING TO
HIM, HE COULD HAVE COMMANDED
THEM TO LEAVE, BUT HE DID NOT.
THE FIRST CRITICAL HOUR AND A
HALF OF THIS BLOODY ATTACK,
DONALD TRUMP
TWEETED HIS RALLY AND DID
NOTHING ELSE. WE KNOW WHY, WE
KNOW HIS STATE OF MIND THAT
PROMPTED HIS AFTER COMPLETE
REFUSAL TO DEFEND US REPORTED BY
THOSE AROUND HIM, THE PRESIDENT
HAS REPORTED BY SOURCES THAT THE
TIME WAS DELIGHTED. AS HE
WATCHED THE VIOLENCE UNFOLD ON
TELEVISION, PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP WAS REPORTEDLY AND I QUOTE
BORDERLINE ENTHUSIASTIC BECAUSE
INTIMATE THE CERTIFICATION WAS
BEING DERAILED."
SENATOR BEN SASSE RELATED
CONVERSATION TO SENIOR WHITE
HOUSE OFFICIALS THAT PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP WAS "WALKING AROUND
THE WHITE HOUSE CONFUSED ABOUT
WHAT OTHER PEOPLE ON HIS TEAM
WERE NOT EXCITED AS HE WAS."
TRUMPS REACTION TO THIS ATTACK
REPORTEDLY, JENNY REALLY FREAKED
PEOPLE OUT
. I UNDERSTAND WHY. WE JUST
SUFFERED A VERY SERIOUS ATTACK
ON OUR COUNTRY AND WE STOPPED IN
THE PEOPLE AROUND HIM DO IT.
WHEN DONALD TRUMP SAW IT, HE WAS
DELIGHTED. WHAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
DID NEXT CONFIRMED WHY HE WANTED
THIS BECAUSE IT SHOWS HIS
SINGULAR FOCUS THAT DAY, THE DAY
WE WERE ATTACKED
WAS NOT PROTECTING US OR
PROTECTING YOU OR PROTECTING THE
CAPITOL,  IT WAS STOPPING THE
CERTIFICATION OF THE ELECTION
RESULTS. THE EVIDENCE IS CLEAR.
SHORTLY AFTER 2:00 P.M., AS THE
NEEDS WAS FULLY UNDERWAY, THEN
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP MADE A
CALL. THIS IS THE FIRST CALL HE
MADE TO ANYONE INSIDE THE
CAPITAL DURING THE ATTACK.
DID NOT CALL THE VICE PRESIDENT
TO ASK HOW HE COULD HELP DEFEND
THE CAPITOL OR CALL THE NEXT
TWO IN LINE FOR THE PRESIDENCY
TO CHECK ON THEIR SAFETY OR
WELL-BEING. INSTEAD, HE
ATTEMPTED TO CALL SENATOR TAYLOR
AND DIALED SENATOR LEE BY
ACCIDENT. SENATOR LEE SAID HE
ENDED A PRAYER WITH A CHAMBER.
THE PHONE RANG, IT WAS DONALD
TRUMP AND HE EXPLAINS THE PHONE
CALL GOES HEY, TOMMY, TRUMP
ASKS, AND
SENATOR LEE SAYS THIS IS NOT
TOMMY AND HE HANDS THE PHONE TO
SENATOR TOMORROW. SENATOR LEE
CONFIRMED HE STOOD BY SENATOR
AND PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP SPOKE
ON THE PHONE. ON THAT CALL,
DONALD TRUMP ASKED SENATOR
TUBURALL TO MAKE THIS , THAT IS
WHY HE CALLED. LET'S BE CLEAR,
AT ROUGHLY 2:00 P.M.,
DONALD TRUMP WAS WALKING AROUND
THE WHITE HOUSE WATCHING THE TV,
DELIGHTED, AND SPENT 5 TO 10
MINUTES TALKING TO SENATOR
TURBERVILLE
ASKING HIM TO DELAY THE RESULTS,
THIS IS WHAT WAS HAPPENING IN
THE CAPITOL.
&gt;&gt; PROTESTERS WERE CALLED IN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt;
YOU SAW SENATOR LANGFORD THAT
SPEAKING AND LEAVE THE FLOOR
QUICKLY IN THAT CLIP BECAUSE
THESE HAD BROKEN THROUGH THE
BARRICADES AND ENTERED
THE BUILDING. AS THESE ARMED
INSURRECTIONS BANGED ON THE
DOORS, MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WERE
TOLD TO PUT ON THEIR GAS MASK
AND PUT BAGS OVER THEIR HEADS
FOR SAFETY AND PREPARED TO
EVACUATE. DONALD TRUMP WAS
CALLING TO ASK A SENATOR TO
DELAY THE CERTIFICATION PROCESS.
LET THAT SINK IN. DONALD TRUMP
DID NOT GET TO FINISH THAT CALL,
WAS CUT OFF BECAUSE THE SENATORS
HAD TO MOVE FOR SECURITY AND
THINK GOD
THEY DID BECAUSE AS THE CALL WAS
OCCURRING, THE RIOTERS THAT
CLOSE TO THE SENATE CHAMBERS. AS
WE ALL KNOW NOW, BUT FOR THE
HEROISM A CAPITOL POLICE OFFICER
EUGENE GOODMAN AND OTHER
OFFICERS WHO DID THESE A
DIFFERENT TIME, THEY VERY LIKELY
WOULD HAVE GOTTEN-THINK ABOUT
THAT. ARMED INSURRECTIONIST
, GUNS, WEAPONS, ZIP TIES, BRASS
KNUCKLES, THEY WERE COMING FOR
US.  THEY WERE INSIDE THE UNITED
STATES CAPITOL  TRYING TO STOP
THE CERTIFICATION PROCESS. THE
POLICE WERE OUTNUMBERED AND BUT
FOR THE GRACE OF GOD, THEY WOULD
HAVE GOTTEN A, ALL OF US. OUR
COMMANDER IN CHIEF MAKES A CALL
ABOUT AN HOUR AFTER THE SIEGE
BEGAN, NOT TO PRESERVE OR
PROTECT AND DEFEND YOU AND OUR
COUNTRY AND THE CAPITOL, BUT  TO
JOIN FORCES WITH THE MOM AND
PRESSURE A SENATOR TO STOP
CERTIFICATION.
WE JUST CANNOT GET THEM TO THIS
KIND OF BEHAVIOR. THERE CAN BE
NO DOUBT AS TO THE PURPOSE OF
DONALD TRUMP'S CALL
THAT HE WAS NOT CALLING TO
SUCCESS THE SECURITY THREATS ARE
CHECKED ON THE WELL-BEING OF YOU
OR ANYONE ELSE. INDEED, LATER ON
THAT EVENING WHILE ALL OF THE
DESTRUCTION AND DAMAGE STILL
CONTINUE, DOZENS OF OFFICERS
WERE TREATED FOR SERIOUS
INJURIES, DEATHS WERE CONFIRMED.
ABOUT 7:00 P.M., THE PRESIDENT'S
PERSONAL LAWYER, RUDY GIULIANI,
MADE A CALL. JUST IN CASE YOU
DON'T THINK THERE WAS SOME
COORDINATION, HE ALSO CALLED
SENATOR LEES PHONE TRYING TO
REACH SENATOR TURBERVILLE.  WE
DON'T HAVE TO GUESS AS TO WHAT
RUDY GIULIANI SAID IN THE
VOICEMAIL BECAUSE WE HAVE THAT
RECORDED. LET'S LISTEN TO WHAT
THE PRESIDENT'S PERSONAL LAWYER
SAID ON THE NIGHT OF THIS
ATTACK.
&gt;&gt; SENATOR TURBERVILLE OR A SAY
COACH TURBERVILLE, THIS IS RUDY
GIULIANI, THE PRESIDENT'S
LAWYER. I AM CALLING BECAUSE I
WANT TO DISCUSS AND HOW WE NEED
YOU AND YOUR REPUBLICAN FRIENDS
TO SLOW IT DOWN.
&gt;&gt; THIS WAS THE SINGULAR FOCUS
OF DONALD TRUMP DURING THIS
BLOODY VIOLENT ATTACK ON THE
CAPITOL.  IT WAS STOPPING THE
CERTIFICATION. AS I MENTIONED, I
WAS A TRAILER FOR 16 YEARS.
SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO ASK A
JUROR TO USE REASONABLE
INFERENCES TO PIECE TOGETHER A
DEFENDANT'S STATE OF MIND. WE
DON'T HAVE TO DO THIS HERE. OUR
COUNTRY WAS VIOLENTLY ATTACKED
BY AN ARMED MOB, PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP NOT ONLY REFUSED TO
STOP THE ATTACK OR EVEN ADDRESS
THE ATTACK AT ALL, HE MADE CLEAR
HIS FOCUS WAS THE SAME GOAL OF
THE ATTACKERS HE INCITED, TO
STOP THE CERTIFICATION PROCESS
AND PREVENT A PEACEFUL
TRANSITION OF POWER. THE ONLY
ACTION WE KNOW HE TOOK AN HOUR
INTO THIS ATTACK WAS TO CALL
SENATOR TURBERVILLE  TO ASK HIM
TO DELAY THE CERTIFICATION. THIS
IS AS CLEAR EVIDENCE AS I HAVE
EVER SEEN OF WHAT DONALD TRUMP
REALLY CARED ABOUT THAT DAY.
LOOK, THE CERTIFICATION PROCESS,
AS WE ALL KNOW, INCLUDES DEBATE
AND OBJECTIONS. SOME OF US
DISAGREED, BUT WE CAME HERE ON
JANUARY 6 TO FORMALLY ADMINISTER
THE CERTIFICATION PROCESS
PURSUANT TO OUR CONSTITUTIONAL
DUTIES. AT THE END OF IT,
CONGRESS CERTIFIED THE RESULTS
TO ENSURE THAT WE CONTINUE TO BE
A COUNTRY WITH LEADERS WHO ARE
ELECTED BY THE PEOPLE FOR THE
PEOPLE.
DONALD TRUMP'S OBJECTION TO THIS
ARE NOT ON TRIAL. WHAT IS ON
TRIAL IS WHILE WE WERE UNDER
ARMED ATTACK AND BEING
EVACUATED,
WHILE OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICERS WERE FIGHTING FOR THEIR
LIVES, OUR COMMANDER IN CHIEF
WAS CALLING NOT TO DETERMINE HOW
TO BEST SECURE THE BUILDING AND
THE PEOPLE IN IT BUT TO CONTINUE
PRESSURE SENATORS TO STOP THE
CERTIFICATION PROCESS AND THE
PEOPLE TRANSFER OF POWER. JUST
AS HE INCITED THE MOM TO DO
EARLIER IN THE DAY. THIS WAS A
BREATHTAKING DERELICTION OF HIS
DUTY, OF HIS VIOLATION, OF HIS
GOES, AS OUR COMMANDER IN CHIEF
. BEFORE AND HANDED OVER TO
MANAGER CASTRO TO WALK THROUGH
THE REST OF THE DAY, LET ME MAKE
ONE FINAL POINT PLEASE. THESE
ATTACKERS STOOD RIGHT WHERE YOU
ARE, THEY WENT ON THAT ROSTRUM,
THEY RIFLED THROUGH YOUR DESKS
AND THEY DESECRATED THIS PLACE.
LITERALLY, THE PRESIDENT SAT
DELIGHTED, DOING NOTHING TO HELP
US,, ONE OF YOU TO PRESSURE TO
STOP THE CERTIFICATION. I CANNOT
BE THAT THE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
CAN INSIGHT
A LAWLESS, BLOODY INSURRECTION
AND THEN UTTERLY FAIL IN HIS
DUTY OF COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF TO
DEFEND US FROM THE ATTACK AND
DEFEND OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT
OFFICERS FROM THAT ATTACK AND
GET AWAY WITH IT. DONALD TRUMP
ABDICATED HIS DUTY TO US ALL. WE
HAVE TO MAKE THIS RIGHT. YOU CAN
MAKE IT RIGHT
.
&gt;&gt; MY FELLOW MANAGER, DAVID
FACILITY, SHOWED YOU WHAT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP DID AND
DID NOT DO IN THOSE FIRST
CRITICAL HOURS OF THE ATTACK. TO
SEND A TWEET ACT 1:49 P.M. WHERE
HE POSTED A SPEECH THAT INCITED
THE ATTACK. HE CALLED THE
SENATOR TO ASK HIM TO DELAY THE
CERTIFICATION. AND THE SENATOR
WAS EVACUATED FOR HIS OWN
SAFETY-WE LEFT OFF AROUND 2:15
P.M.. AT THIS POINT, INSURGENTS
WERE INSIDE THE SENATE AND THE
HOUSE AND THE SENATE HAD BEEN
EVACUATED BY EVERYONE'S SAFETY.
AS YOU SAW, VICE PRESIDENT MIKE
PENCE AND HIS FAMILY EVEN HAD TO
BE EVACUATED FOR THEIR SAFETY.
YOU WILL RECALL THAT DONALD
TRUMP HAD MADE VICE PRESIDENT
PENN STATE A TARGET
. HE ATTACKED THE VICE PRESIDENT
AT THE RALLIES, AND SPEECHES,
AND ON TWITTER. DURING PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP'S SPEECH THAT
MORNING OF THE ATTACK, HE RAMP
IT UP AGAIN AFTER PRIVATELY
PRESSURING MIKE PENCE IN FRONT
OF THOUSANDS IN THE CROWD, HE
CALLED MIKE PENCE OUT 11 TIMES
INCLUDING SAYING "MIKE PENCE, I
HOPE YOU WILL STAND UP FOR THE
GOOD OF OUR CONSTITUTION AND FOR
THE GOOD OF YOUR COUNTRY. IF YOU
ARE NOT, I WILL BE DISAPPOINTED
IN YOU. I WILL TELL YOU RIGHT
NOW. THIS WAS THE CROWDS
RESPONSE TO DONALD TRUMP'S DAYS
OF RELENTLESS ATTACKS ON HIS OWN
VICE PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt; HANG MIKE PENCE.
&gt;&gt; ALEX CARUSO: 15 P.M., THE
CROWD WAS CHANTING, IN UNISON,
HANG MIKE PENCE OUTSIDE THE VERY
BUILDING HE HAD BEEN EVACUATED
FROM WITH HIS FAMILY. EVEN IF
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP DID NOT
KNOW THAT HIS INFLAMMATORY
REMARKS ABOUT HIS VICE PRESIDENT
WOULD RESULT IN CHANCE OF HANG
MIKE PENCE, BY TO: 15 P.M., HE
SURELY KNEW. THE
OVER TELEVISION. THEY WERE DOING
THIS OUT IN THE OPEN. THIS WAS A
VICE PRESIDENT WHOSE LIFE, WHOSE
FAMILIES LIFE WAS BEING
THREATENED BY PEOPLE WHOM THE
PRESIDENT HAD SUMMONED TO THE
CAPITOL.
WHAT DID PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP
DO IN RESPONSE? DID HE STOP? DID
HE TELL HIS BASE NO, DO NOT
ATTACK MY VICE PRESIDENT? EVEN
WHEN PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP NEW
WHAT HIS WORDS WERE CAUSING, HE
DID NOT DO ANY OF THOSE THINGS
TO STOP THE CROWD. IN FACT, HE
DID THE OPPOSITE, HE FUELED THE
FIRE. AT 2:24 P.M., HE TWEETED "
MIKE PENCE DID NOT HAVE THE
COURAGE TO DO WHAT SHOULD HAVE
BEEN DONE TO PROTECT OUR COUNTRY
AND OUR CONSTITUTION. USA
DEMANDS THE TRUTH." OVER AN HOUR
AND A HALF INTO THE ATTACK AND
THIS IS WHAT HE TWEETED, AND HE
STILL, EVEN AT THIS POINT, DID
NOT ACKNOWLEDGE THE ATTACK ON
THE CAPITOL , LET ALONE CONDEMN
IT. INSTEAD, HE FURTHER INSIGHTS
THE MOB AGAINST HIS OWN VICE
PRESIDENT WHOSE LIFE WAS BEING
THREATENED
. SOME OF YOU MIGHT SAY WELL WHO
WAS PAYING ATTENTION ANYWAY?
THAT MOB WAS PAYING ATTENTION.
&gt;&gt; MIKE PENCE DID NOT HAVE
COURAGE TO DO WHAT SHOULD HAVE
BEEN DONE TO PROTECT OUR COUNTRY
AND OUR CONSTITUTION GIVING A
CHANCE TO CERTIFY A CORRECTED
SET OF FACTS OR INACCURATE ONES,
WHICH THEY WERE ASKED TO
PREVIOUSLY CERTIFIED. U.S.
DEMANDS THE TRUTH.
&gt;&gt; CAN I SPEAK TO PELOSI? MIKE
PENCE, WE ARE COMING FOR YOU
.
&gt;&gt; DONALD J TRUMP SENT A TWEET
OUT SAY THAT MIKE PENCE LET US
DOWN. MIKE PENCE LET US DOWN.
IF YOU WANT TO GET SOMETHING
DONE, YOU HAVE TO DO THAT
YOURSELF.
&gt;&gt; THE INSURGENTS AMPLIFIED
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S TWEET
ATTACKING THE VICE PRESIDENT
WITH A BULLHORN. THEY WERE
PAYING ATTENTION AND THEY ALSO
FOLLOWED INSTRUCTIONS.
IN FACT, THE INSURGENTS, WERE AT
ONE POINT, AS YOU SAW, 60 FEET
AWAY FROM THE VICE PRESIDENT AND
THE VICE PRESIDENT'S FAMILY.
SOME OF THESE INSURGENTS WERE
HEARD SAYING "THAT THEY HOPE TO
FIND VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE
AND EXECUTE HIM BY HANGING HIM
FROM A CAPITOL POETRY  AS A
TRADER.
AND THEN, THEY ERECTED A GALLOWS
WITH A NEWS
. THIS IS WHAT DONALD TRUMP
INCITED. PLEASE TAKE A CLOSE
LOOK AT THAT PICTURE. IT HARKENS
BACK TO OUR NATION'S WORST
HISTORY OF LYNCHING
. A PRESIDENT'S WORDS HAVE THE
POWER TO MOVE PEOPLE TO ACTION
. THESE WERE THE RESULTS
. WHY DID THE PRESIDENT INCITE
SUCH RAGE AGAINST THE VICE
PRESIDENT? HE WAS FULFILLING HIS
CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY AS WE ALL
WERE THAT DAY. VICE PRESIDENT'S
IN THIS COUNTRY HAVE CARRIED OUT
THIS CONSTITUTIONAL DUTY
OVERSEEING THE CERTIFICATION OF
THE ELECTION RESULTS WITHOUT
INCIDENT, WITHOUT CONTEST,
WITHOUT A WORD FOR THE ENTIRETY
OF OUR NATION. PART OF OUR
PEACEFUL TRANSITION OF POWER IN
THE UNITED STATES. THE VICE
PRESIDENT SAID HE REVIEWED THE
CONSTITUTION AND HE COULD NOT
BLOCK THE CERTIFICATION AS
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP WANTED
HIM AND WAS PRESSURING HIM TO DO
. HE TOLD THE PRESIDENT IN A
LETTER THAT MORNING, A FEW HOURS
BEFORE PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S
TWEET "I WILL APPROACH THIS
MOMENT WITH A SENSE OF DUTY AND
AN OPEN MIND SECOND POLITICS
PUTTING PERSONAL POLITICS ASIDE
AND DO MY PART TO FAITHFULLY
DISCHARGE MY DUTIES, OUR DUTIES
UNDER THE CONSTITUTION.
&gt;&gt; I ALSO PRAY THAT WE WILL DO
SO WITH HUMILITY
AND FAITH. AND THE PRESIDENT'S
RESPONSE TO THAT STATEMENT WAS
TO ATTACK MIKE PENCE WHILE HE
WAS WITH HIS FAMILY UNDER THE
THREAT OF A
VIOLENT MOB. THE VICE PRESIDENT
WAS FOLLOWING HIS FAITH, HIS
DUTY, AND HIS OATH TO OUR
NATION. WHEN THE VICE PRESIDENT
AND I DON'T AGREE ON TOO MUCH
IN POLITICS, BUT HE IS A MAN WHO
UPHOLDS HIS OATH, HIS FAITH, HIS
DUTY. AND MOST OF ALL, UPHOLDS
THE CONSTITUTION. MIKE PENCE IS
NOT A TRAITOR TO THIS COUNTRY.
HE IS
A PATRIOT. AND HE AND HIS FAMILY
WERE WITH HIM THAT DAY, THEY DID
NOT
DESERVE THIS. THEY DID NOT
DESERVE A PRESIDENT UNLEASHING A
MOP ON THEM. ESPECIALLY BECAUSE
HE WAS JUST DOING HIS JOB. AS
THIS WAS UNFOLDING IN THE
CROWDED ROOM,
THE PRESIDENT OF COURSE WAS NOT
ALONE AT THE WHITE HOUSE. THE
PEOPLE CLOSEST TO HIM, HIS
FAMILY AND ADVISERS WHO SAW THIS
UNFOLDING IN REAL-TIME BEGGED
HIM, IMPLORED HIM. STOP
THE ATTACK.
AN AIDE TO MARK MEADOWS, THE
PRESIDENT'S CHIEF OF STAFF URGED
HIS BOSS TO GO SEE THE
PRESIDENT, SAYING QUOTE, THEY
ARE GOING TO KILL PEOPLE. THEY
ARE GOING TO KILL PEOPLE. THAT'S
WITH THOSE AROUND PRESIDENT
TRUMP FEARED. AND
STILL, NOTHING. IT WAS NOT UNTIL
2:38 P.M., NEARLY 2 HOURS AFTER
THE START OF THE SIEGE. THAT
DONALD TRUMP EVEN ACKNOWLEDGED
THE ATTACK. WHEN HE FINALLY DID
ACKNOWLEDGE THE ATTACK, HERE IS
WHAT HE SAID. ON
THE RIGHT, YOU WILL SEE WHAT HAD
BEEN HAPPENING PRIOR TO THAT
TWEET AND AS HE SENT THE TWEAK,
AND ON THE LEFT, YOU WILL SEE
EXACTLY WHAT HE TWEETED.
&gt;&gt; I'M GOING TO STOP YOU THERE
FOR JUST ONE MOMENT, BECAUSE WE
DO HAVE SOME BREAKING NEWS. WE
WANT TO BRING IN CHAD PERGRAM AS
THIS IS DEVELOPING RIGHT NOW.
CHAD, I UNDERSTAND THE CAPITAL
IS NOW
ON LOCKDOWN? THERE THEY ARE
DEFINITELY FIRED UP. BY THE WAY,
THE CHANT I HEARD THE MOST TODAY
WAS FIGHT FOR TRUMP! THAT'S
CLEARLY WHAT MANY OF THEM FEEL
THAT THEY ARE DOING.
&gt;&gt; HOLD
THE LINE!
&gt;&gt; FOR THE LAND OF
THE FREE!
&gt;&gt; Reporter: THAT'S WHEN OUR
PRESIDENT SAW UNFOLDING IN
REAL-TIME. BROADCAST ALL OVER
TELEVISION. THIS IS WHAT HE
TWEETED AT 2:30 P.M.
PLEASE SUPPORT OUR CAPITAL
POLICE AND LAW ENFORCEMENT. THEY
ARE TRULY ON THE SIDE OF OUR
COUNTRY. STEVE PEACEFUL. MUCH
HAS BEEN MADE OF THE FACT THAT
IN HIS TWEET, HE SAYS STAY
PEACEFUL. SENATORS, STAY
PEACEFUL? THINK ABOUT THAT FOR A
SECOND. THESE FOLKS WERE
NOT PEACEFUL. THEY WERE BREAKING
WINDOWS. PUSHING THROUGH LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS, WAVING THE
FLAG AS THEY INVADED THIS
CAPITAL BUILDING. THIS WAS A
VIOLENT ARMED ATTACK. STAY
PEACEFUL? HOW ABOUT STOP THE
ATTACK? STOP
THE VIOLENCE? STAY PEACEFUL? HOW
ABOUT YOU SAY IMMEDIATELY LEAVE!
STOP. AND HE SAID, PLEASE
SUPPORT OUR
LAW ENFORCEMENT. HOW ABOUT YOU
ACTUALLY SUPPORT OUR LAW
ENFORCEMENT BY TELLING THESE
INSURGENTS TO LEAVE THE CAPITAL
IMMEDIATELY. WHICH HE
NEVER DID. HE DID NOT APPEAR
BECAUSE THE TRUTH IS, HE DID NOT
WANT IT TO STOP. HE WANTED THEM
TO
STAY AND TO STOP THE
CERTIFICATION. HIS FAILURE HAD
GRAVE AND
DEADLY CONSEQUENCES.
BY 2:45 P.M., THE WARNINGS WERE
TRAGICALLY
PROVEN CORRECT. ASHLEY BABBITT
WAS SHOT BY AN OFFICER AS SHE
TRIED TO BREAK THROUGH A GLASS
DOOR TO REACH THE SPEAKERS
LOBBY. AT THIS POINT, THE POLICE
AND DONALD TRUMP PUBLICLY AND
PRIVATELY GREW EVEN
MORE DESPERATE. AT 254 P.M.,
ALYSSA FEHR, A FORMER STRATEGIC
COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR BACK TO
THE PRESIDENT, QUOTE CONDEMN
THIS NOW, YOU ARE THE ONLY ONE
THEY WILL LISTEN TO. FOR OUR
COUNTRY, MICK MULVANEY, HIS
RIGHT HAND AND AT ONE POINT
TWEETED THAT 3:01, THE
PRESIDENT'S TWEET IS NOT ENOUGH.
HE CAN STOP THIS NOW AND NEEDS
TO DO EXACTLY THAT. TELL THESE
FOLKS TO GO HOME! HE CAN STOP
THIS NOW! TELL THESE FOLKS TO
GO HOME! AT 3:06 P.M., BRETT
McCARTHY, APPEARED ON FOX NEWS.
HERE IS WHAT HE SAID.
&gt;&gt; I CANNOT BE SADDER OR MORE
DISAPPOINTED AT THIS VERY
MOMENT. PEOPLE ARE GETTING HURT.
ANYONE INVOLVED IN THIS, IF YOU
ARE HEARING ME, HEAR ME VERY
LOUD AND CLEAR. THIS IS NOT THE
AMERICAN WAY.
&gt;&gt; HE IS SAYING ON FOX NEWS,
WHICH THE PRESIDENT WATCHES,
THIS IS NOT THE AMERICAN WAY.
STOP
THE ATTACK. REPRESENTATIVE
GALLAGHER,
AT 3:11 P.M. ALL SECURED IN HIS
OWN OFFICE POSTED A VIDEO
TO TWITTER.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, YOU HAVE GOT
TO STOP THIS. YOU ARE THE ONLY
ONE WHO CAN CALL THIS OFF. CALL
IT OFF.
&gt;&gt; AND THEN, WHEN THE PRESIDENT
DID NOT ANSWER HIS PLEAS ON
TWITTER, REPRESENTATIVE
GALLAGHER WENT ON LIVE
TELEVISION.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS INSANE. I HAVE NOT
SEEN ANYTHING LIKE THIS SINCE I
DEPLOYED TO IRAQ IN 2007, 2008.
THIS IS AMERICA, AND THIS IS
WHAT IS HAPPENING RIGHT NOW. THE
PRESIDENT NEEDS TO CALL IT OFF.
CALL IT OFF! CALL
IT OFF.
&gt;&gt; REPRESENTATIVE GALLAGHER, YOU
SEE THERE SAID HE HAD NOT SEEN
ANYTHING LIKE THIS SINCE HE WAS
DEPLOYED IN IRAQ. THE MESSAGE
AROUND THE PRESIDENT WAS CLEAR.
FROM EVERYONE, YOU NEED TO CALL
THIS OFF.
STOP IT. BUT DOES
HE? NO. HE IS NEXT WEEK WAS NOT
UNTIL ABOUT 3:13 P.M.
ONCE AGAIN, IT'S IMPORTANT TO
CONSIDER WHAT WAS HAPPENING
BETWEEN DONALD TRUMP MARK AND HE
IS NEXT WEEK 10:13. YOU WILL SEE
DONALD TRUMP'S'S TWEET ON
THE LEFT.
&gt;&gt; WE THEN INFORMED THAT
PROTESTERS HAD PENETRATED THE
CAPITAL.
&gt;&gt; HEY! THE SENTIMENT IN THE
STREETS IS REALLY GETTING TO A
DIFFERENT LEVEL. THIS IS
SPINNING OUT OF CONTROL. THIS IS
TURNING VIOLENT, GETTING
DANGEROUS. I HAVE
NO IDEA.
&gt;&gt; GET THE [ BLEEP ] OUT
OF HERE!
&gt;&gt; THIS IS NOT 10 MINUTES INTO
THE INSURRECTION. THIS IS NOT
JUST AFTER HIS SPEECH EARLIER
THAT DAY BECAUSE THAT IS WHAT
OUR COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF SAW
HAPPENING AND THAT WAS HIS
RESPONSE. YOU WILL NOTICE, ONE
OF THE THINGS HE SAYS TO HIS
MOM, TO THESE INSURRECTIONIST,
RATHER THAN TO STOP OR TO LEAVE
WAS TO SAY THANK YOU.
THANK YOU. THANK YOU
FOR WHAT? THANK YOU FOR
SHATTERING THE WINDOWS AND
DESTROYING PROPERTY? THANK YOU
FOR INJURING MORE THAN 140
POLICE OFFICERS?
THANK YOU FOR PUTTING IN DANGER
ALL OF THE LIVES, THE LIVES OF
OUR FAMILIES? HOW ABOUT INSTEAD
OF THANK YOU, AND DONALD TRUMP
ON THAT DAY ACTED LIKE OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF AND STOPPED
THIS AS ONLY HE COULD AND TOLD
THOSE PEOPLE
TO LEAVE? HERE IS WHERE FORMER
GOVERNOR CHRIS CHRISTIE, HIS
VERY GOOD FRIEND SAID AFTER THAT
TWEET.
&gt;&gt; I'M PRETTY SURE THE PRESIDENT
CAUSED THIS TO OCCUR. HE IS THE
ONLY ONE THAT CAN MAKE IT STOP.
WITH THE PRESIDENT SAID IS NOT
GOOD ENOUGH. HE HAS TO COME OUT
AND TELL HIS SUPPORTERS TO LEAVE
THE CAPITAL
ALLOW CONGRESS TO DO THEIR
BUSINESS PEACEFULLY. AND
ANYTHING SHORT OF
THAT IS DENYING HIS
RESPONSIBILITY.
&gt;&gt; HE IS RIGHT HERE CHRIS
CHRISTIE
IS RIGHT. WE KNOW HOW DONALD
TRUMP ACTS ON TWITTER AND
OTHERWISE HAS A MESSAGE TO
CONVEY. IN FACT, I ASK YOU TO
REMEMBER THE STREETS EARLIER
THIS MORNING. WHEN HE YELLED ON
TWITTER, STOP
THE COUNSELING WHEN HE WANTED TO
INCITE HIS SUPPORTERS TO SHOW UP
ON JANUARY 6, PRESIDENT TRUMP
TWEETED 16 TIMES BETWEEN BEN
KNIGHT ON JANUARY 5 AND HIS NEW
RALLY SPEECH THE
NEXT DAY. 16 TIMES TO GET THEM
TO DO SOMETHING THAT THEY
WANTED. HIS MESSAGE IN THOSE 16
TIMES WAS CLEAR. FIGHT, STAY
STRONG, BE STRONG. WHEN THE
SAID THE ONE THING EVERYONE
AROUND HIM WAS BEGGING HIM
TO SAY. STOP
THE ATTACK.
ONLY DONALD TRUMP COULD HAVE
STOPPED
THAT ATTACK.
&gt;&gt; A GUY THAT KNOWS HOW TO TREAT
VERY AGGRESSIVELY ON TWITTER PUT
OUT ONE OF THE WEAKEST
STATEMENTS IN AMERICAN HISTORY
BECAUSE HIS EGO WILL NOT
LET HIM --
&gt;&gt; HE WAS NOT JUST OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF. HE HAD
INSIDE OF THE ATTACK THE
INSURGENTS WERE FOLLOWING
HIS COMMANDS. AND ESAU, WHEN
THEY READ ALOUD THIS TWEET,
ATTACKING THE VICE PRESIDENT,
THEY CONFIRMED THIS DURING THE
ATTACK TO.
&gt;&gt; [ SCREAMING
]
&gt;&gt; SENATORS, ASK YOURSELF THIS,
HOW EASY WOULD IT HAVE BEEN FOR
THE PRESIDENT TO GIVE A SIMPLE
COMMAND? A SIMPLE INSTRUCTION?
JUST
TELLING THIS,
STOP, LEAVE. THIS WAS A
DERELICTION OF DUTY. PLAIN
SIMPLE. AND IT WOULD HAVE BEEN
FOR ANY PRESIDENT WHO HAD DONE
THAT. THAT BRINGS ME TO MY NEXT
POINT. YOU HEARD FROM MY
COLLEAGUES THAT WHEN PLANNING
THIS ATTACK, THE INSURGENTS
PREDICT DID THAT DONALD TRUMP
WOULD COME IN THE NATIONAL GUARD
TO
HELP THEM. THERE'S A LOT THAT WE
DON'T KNOW YET ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED THAT DAY. HERE'S WHAT
WE DO KNOW. DONALD TRUMP DID NOT
SEND HELP TO
THESE OFFICERS. WHO WERE BADLY
OUTNUMBERED, OVERWHELMED AND
BEING BEATEN-DOWN. TWO HOURS
INTO THE INSURRECTION, BY 3:00
P.M., PRESIDENT TRUMP HAD NOT
DEPLOYED THE NATIONAL GUARD. OR
ANY OTHER LAW ENFORCEMENT
TO HELP. DESPITE MULTIPLE PLEAS
TO DO SO. PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP WHO WAS AT THE TIME
OUR COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, HE
TOOK A SOLEMN OATH TO PRESERVE,
PROTECT AND DEFEND
THIS COUNTRY. HE FAILED TO
UPHOLD
THAT OATH. THERE'S NO INDICATION
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP EVER MADE A
CALL TO HAVE THE GUARD DEPLOYED.
OR HAD ANYTHING TO DO WITH THE
GUARD
BEING DEPLOYED. SHORT AFTER 3:04
P.M., HE ANNOUNCED THAT THE CARD
HAD BEEN ACTIVATED. LISTED THE
PEOPLE THAT HE SPOKE WITH PRIOR
TO THIS ACTIVATION, INCLUDING
VICE PRESIDENT MIKE PENCE,
SPEAKER PELOSI, LEADER
McCONNELL,
SENATOR SCHUMER AND
REPRESENTATIVE HOYER. BUT THAT
LIST DID NOT INCLUDE THE
PRESIDENT. THIS OMISSION OF HIS
NAME WAS REPORTEDLY NOT
ACCIDENTAL. ACCORDING
TO REPORTS, TRUMP INITIALLY
REBUFFED REQUESTS AND REQUIRED
INTERFERENCE BY OTHER OFFICIALS
INCLUDING HIS OWN WHITE HOUSE
COUNCILMAN.
AND LATER, QUOTE, AS A MOB OF
TRUMP SUPPORTERS BREACHED POLICE
BARRICADES AND SEES THE CAPITAL,
TRUMP REPORTEDLY WAS QUOTE,
DISENGAGED IN DISCUSSIONS WITH
PENTAGON LEADERS.
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS REPORTEDLY
AND I QUOTE COMPLETELY, TOTALLY
OUT
OF IT. HE MADE NO ATTEMPT TO
REACH THE NATIONAL GUARD AND IT
WAS VICE PRESIDENT PENCE, STILL
UNDER THE THREAT FOR HIS LIFE
WHO REPORTEDLY SPOKE TO THE
GUARD. PRESIDENT TRUMP'S CONDUCT
REFERS
THIS TO. AT NO POINT DID DONALD
TRUMP EVEN REFERENCE THE
NATIONAL GUARD. THE ONLY THING
THAT WE HEARD CONNECTING THE
PRESIDENT TO THE GUARD WAS HIS
PRESS SECRETARY WHO TWEETED
ABOUT THE GUARD BEING DEPLOYED
OVER HALF AN HOUR LATER AT
3:36 P.M. WE HAVE SEEN WHAT
DONALD TRUMP DOES WHEN HE TRIES
TO TAKE CREDIT FOR SOMETHING.
AND YET, EVEN WHEN THE NATIONAL
GUARD WAS FINALLY DEPLOYED, HE
DID NOT EVEN ACKNOWLEDGE IT. IN
FACT, HE DIDN'T EVEN SAY A WORD
ABOUT THE NATIONAL GUARD THE
ENTIRE DAY. THINK
ABOUT THAT. THE BLOODIEST ATTACK
WE HAVE SEEN ON OUR CAPITAL
SINCE 1812 AND OUR PRESIDENT
COULD NOT BE BOTHERED TO EVEN
MENTION THAT HELP WAS ON
ITS WAY. THESE INSURGENTS HAD
BEEN ATTACKING OUR GOVERNMENT
FOR OVER FOUR HOURS BY THAT
POINT. AND WE MAY HAVE BEEN THE
TARGET, BUT IT WAS THE BRAVE MEN
AND WOMEN WHO PROTECT OUR
CAPITAL, WHO WERE OUT THERE
COMBATING THOUSANDS
OF ARMED
INSURGENTS.  WHO
WERE BATTLING THE MEN AND WOMEN
PROTECTING OUR LIVES. THAT'S WHO
DONALD TRUMP LEFT
UNPROTECT DID.
HOW SEVERELY THEY
WERE OUTNUMBERED. WHILE OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF, WHOSE JOB IT
WAS TO PROTECT AND DEFEND THEM.
WISHES WATCHING, AND DOING
NOTHING. FOR HOURS. REFUSING TO
SEND HELP. IF HE WANTED TO
PROTECT THESE OFFICERS, IF HE
CARED ABOUT THEIR SAFETY, AS HE
TWEETED ABOUT, HE WOULD HAVE
TOLD HIS SUPPORTERS TO LEAVE, HE
WOULD HAVE SENT HELP
RIGHT AWAY. ONE OFFICER WAS
KILLED. OTHERS TOOK THEIR LIVES.
AFTER THE ATTACK. MORE THAN 140
POLICE
OFFICERS WERE INJURED, INCLUDING
CRACKED WRISTS, ONE
OFFICER LOST AND I. ANOTHER WAS
STABBED WITH A METAL FENCE TAKE.
THEY WERE COMPLETELY AND
VIOLENTLY OVERWHELMED BY A MOB
AND NEEDED HELP. AND OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF, PRESIDENT
TRUMP REFUSED TO SEND
IT. SENATORS, YOU HAVE SEEN ALL
THE EVIDENCE SO FAR, IN
THIS IS CLEAR. ON JANUARY 6,
PRESIDENT TRUMP LEFT EVERYONE IN
HIS CAPITAL
FOR DEBT. FOR THE NEXT HOUR,
AFTER
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S 3:00 P.M.
TWEET, HE STILL DID NOTHING. NOT
UNTIL
4:17 P.M., OVER 3.5 HOURS AFTER
THE VIOLENCE STARTED, HE FINALLY
ASKED THE INSURGENTS TO GO HOME.
ON THE RIGHT, YOU WILL SEE WHAT
HAPPENED IN THAT DAY IN THE
HOURS LEADING UP TO HIS
PRERECORDED VIDEO. ON THE LEFT,
YOU WILL SEE HIS MESSAGE. LET'S
WATCH.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW YOUR PAIN, I KNOW YOU
ARE HURT. WE HAD AN ELECTION
THAT WAS STOLEN FROM US. IT WAS
A LANDSLIDE ELECTION AND
EVERYONE KNOWS IT. ESPECIALLY
THE
OTHER SIDE. BUT YOU HAVE TO GO
HOME NOW. WE HAVE TO HAVE PEACE,
WE HAVE TO HAVE LAW AND ORDER.
WE HAVE TO RESPECT
OUR GREAT PEOPLE IN LAW AND
ORDER. WE DON'T WANT ANYBODY
HURT. IT'S A VERY TOUGH PERIOD
OF TIME. THERE'S NEVER BEEN A
TIME LIKE THIS, WHERE SUCH A
THING HAPPENED WHERE THEY COULD
TAKE IT AWAY FROM ALL OF US, FOR
ME, FROM YOU, FROM OUR COUNTRY.
THIS WAS A FRAUDULENT ELECTION.
BUT WE CANNOT PLAY INTO THE
HANDS OF THESE PEOPLE. WE HAVE
TO
HAVE PEACE. SO GO HOME, WE LOVE
YOU, YOU ARE VERY SPECIAL. WE
HAVE SEEN WHAT HAPPENS. YOU SEE
THE WAY OTHERS ARE TREATED THAT
ARE SO BAD AND SO EVIL. WE KNOW
HOW YOU FEEL. BUT GO HOME, AND
GO HOME
IN PEACE.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS THE FIRST TIME OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF SPOKE
PUBLICLY AT ALL SINCE THE ATTACK
BEGAN. OVER THE 3.5 HOURS AFTER
IT STARTED. AND THESE ARE THE
ENTIRETY OF THE WORDS THE
PRESIDENT SPOKE OUT LOUD TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE OR TO THE
ATTACKERS THAT ENTIRE DAY.
NOWHERE IN THAT VIDEO, NOT ONCE,
DID HE SAY I CONDEMN THIS
INSURRECTION. I CONDEMN WHAT YOU
DID TODAY. NOWHERE DID HE SAY I
AM SENDING HELP IMMEDIATELY.
STOP THIS! HERE'S WHAT HE SAID
INSTEAD. I KNOW YOUR PAIN. I
KNOW YOU ARE HURT. WE HAD AN
ELECTION THAT WAS STOLEN. EVEN
AFTER ALL THE THINGS
WE WITNESSED, HE GOES OUT AND
TELLS THE SAME BIG LIE. THE SAME
BIG LIFE THAT ENRAGED AND
INCITED THE ATTACK. HE
THIS WHILE THE ATTACK WAS
ONGOING AND WHILE WE WERE STILL
UNDER THREAT. HERE'S WHAT ELSE
HE SENT. GO HOME IN PEACE. WE
LOVE YOU! YOU ARE VERY SPECIAL.
SENATORS, YOU WERE HERE. YOU SAW
THIS WITH YOUR OWN EYES. YOU
FACED
THAT DANGER. AND WHEN PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO
CONFRONT THEM AS THE LEADER OF
US ALL, AS OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF, WHAT DID HE
TELL THEM? WE LOVE YOU? YOU ARE
VERY SPECIAL. THIS WAS NOT
A CONDEMNATION. THIS WAS A
MESSAGE OF CONSOLATION, OF
SUPPORT. OF PRAISE. IF THERE'S
ANY DOUBT THAT HIS SUPPORTERS,
THESE INSURGENTS TOOK THIS AS A
MESSAGE OF SUPPORT AND PRAISE ,
WATCH
FOR YOURSELVES.
&gt;&gt; DONALD TRUMP ASKED EVERYONE
TO GO HOME. HE JUST PUT OUT A
TWEET THAT IS A
MINUTE LONG. WE WON THE [ BLEEP
] TODAY. WE [ BLEEP ] ONE. WE
WON BY SENDING A MESSAGE
DEPENDS. IF THEY DON'T DO AS
THEY ARE OPPOSED TO DO AND THEY
DON'T UPHOLD THE CONSTITUTION,
YOU WILL REMOVE THEM FROM OFFICE
ONE WAY
OR ANOTHER.
&gt;&gt; I SUSPECT YOU RECOGNIZE THAT
MEN. YOU WILL HEAR HIM SAY THAT
WE WON THE DAY. WHO WON
THE DAY? WE KNOW THAT AT LEAST
FIVE PEOPLE LOST THEIR LIVES
THAT DAY. THE
LIFE-THREATENING DANGER. WHO WON
ON
JANUARY 6? THAT IS NOT A WIN FOR
AMERICA. BUT IT IS A WIN FOR
DONALD TRUMP, UNLESS WE HOLD
HIM ACCOUNTABLE.
NOW, A LITTLE OVER AN HOUR AFTER
THE VIDEO, THE
BRAVES MEMBERS OF LAW
ENFORCEMENT SECURE THE CAPITAL
AND WE GOT READY TO CONTINUE
CERTIFYING THE RESULTS OF OUR
FREE AND FAIR ELECTION. A HALF
HOUR AFTER THAT, PRESIDENT TRUMP
ISSUED
ANOTHER TWEET. AS TO WHETHER HE
HAD INCITED THIS, HE
COMMEMORATED WHAT HAPPENED ON
JANUARY 6. ON JANUARY 6,
HE TWEETED, THESE ARE THE THINGS
AND EVENTS THAT HAPPEN WHEN A
SACRED LANDSLIDE ELECTION SO
UNCEREMONIOUSLY
AND VICIOUSLY
, REMEMBER THIS
DAY FOREVER.
THIS TWEET SHOWS EXACTLY HOW
DONALD TRUMP FELT ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED ON JANUARY 6. THESE ARE
THE THINGS
THAT HAPPENED. HE IS SAYING,
THIS WAS FOR SEEABLE. HE IS
SAYING, I TOLD YOU THAT THIS WAS
GOING TO HAPPEN IF YOU CERTIFY
THE ELECTION FOR ANYONE ELSE.
AND YOU GOT WHAT YOU DESERVE FOR
TRYING TO TAKE MY
POWER AWAY. GREAT PAGES, GO HOME
WITH LOVE AND IN PEACE. REMEMBER
THIS
DAY FOREVER. HE IS SAYING TO
THEM, YOU DID GOOD. HE IS NOT
REGRETFUL, HE'S NOT BREATHING,
HE IS NOT SAD. HE IS NOT ANGRY
ABOUT THE ATTACK. HE IS
COMMEMORATING IT.
THIS IS THE ENTIRETY OF WHAT
PRESIDENT TRUMP SAID TO THE
PUBLIC. FIVE TWEETS IN A
PRERECORDED VIDEO. ON THE DATE
OF THE MOST BLOODY INSURRECTION
WE HAVE FACED IN GENERATIONS,
OUR COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF WAS KNOWN
FOR SENDING 108 TWEETS IN A
NORMAL DAY. HE SENT FIVE TWEETS
AND A PRERECORDED VIDEO. THAT IS
THE ENTIRETY OF PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S PUBLIC STATEMENTS FROM
WHEN THE ATTACK BEGAN UNTIL HE
WENT TO BED ON JANUARY 6. THAT
IS ALL HE DID. DESPITE ALL THE
PEOPLE
WE KNOW WHO BEGGED HIM TO
PRESERVE, PROTECT AND DEFEND.
THAT WAS OUR
COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF'S RESPONSE.
HE BEGAN THE DAY WITH QUOTE OUR
COUNTRY HAS HAD ENOUGH. AND WE
WILL NOT TAKE IT ANYMORE! AND
THAT'S WHAT THIS IS ALL ABOUT.
AND HANDED THE ATTACK LETTING US
KNOW THAT WE GOT WHAT HE
FOREWARNED
THAT MORNING. WE WILL, OF
COURSE, EACH OF US REMEMBER THAT
DAY FOREVER. BUT NOT IN THE WAY
THAT PRESIDENT
TRUMP INTENDED. NOT BECAUSE OF
THE ACTIONS OF THESE VIOLENT,
UNPATRIOTIC INSURRECTIONIST. I
WILL REMEMBER THAT DAY FOREVER
BECAUSE DESPITE PRESIDENT
TRUMP'S THIS IS TIMES THROUGHOUT
THE DAY TO ENCOURAGE
THE SIEGE,
HE FAILED. AT E:06 P.M., THE
SENATE GOBBLED INTO SESSION.
ABOUT AN HOUR LATER, THE HOUSE
FOLLOWED SUIT. CLOSE TO 4:00
A.M., AFTER SPENDING A
SIGNIFICANT PART OF THE DAY
EVACUATING OR ON THE
FLOOR HIDING. THIS GREAT BODY
FULFILL THE WILL OF THE PEOPLE
AND CERTIFY THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE WILL. I AM PROUD TO BE
PART OF CONGRESS, I AM PROUD
THAT WE ENSURE THE WILL OF THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE FINALLY
PREVAILED ON
THAT DAY. AND I AM PROUD THAT I,
AND EVERYONE ELSE IN THIS ROOM
ABIDED BY OUR OATH OF OFFICE
EVEN IF THE PRESIDENT DID NOT
ABIDE BY HIS. PRESIDENT TOO TOOK
AN OATH. HE SWORE ON A BIBLE TO
PRESERVE, PROTECT AND DEFEND.
WHO AMONG US CAN HONESTLY SAY
THAT THEY BELIEVE THAT HE HAD
HELD THAT BATTLE? AND WHO AMONG
US WILL LET HIS OTHER
DERELICTION OF
DUTY STAND?
MR. PRESIDENT, THE MANAGERS ARE
PREPARED TO RECESS FOR THE
EVENING AND TO FINISH OUR
OPENING
STATEMENT TOMORROW.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt;
MR. PRESIDENT. FIRST, WITH RULE
16, I MAKE A MOTION.
STATEMENTS WERE ATTRIBUTED BY
THE
HOUSE MANAGERS.
THEY WERE NOT MADE BY ME, THEY
WERE NOT ACCURATE. WERE CONTRARY
TO FACT. I MOVE THAT THEY BE
STRICKEN FROM
THE RECORD.
&gt;&gt; PURSUANT TO RESOLUTION 47,
SECTION 4, PRESENTATIONS ARE NOT
LIMITED TO THE MARKET PROVIDED
FOR -- OF
THAT RESOLUTION.
&gt;&gt;
MAJORITY LEADER?
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, MR. PRESIDENT?
RIGHT HERE? WAIT, WAIT, WE MIGHT
AS WELL HEAR CLEARLY WHAT THE
RULING OF THE CHAIR WAS. SO IF
YOU WOULD REPEAT THAT?
&gt;&gt; YES, PURSUANT TO THE SENATE
RESOLUTION 47, THE PRESENTATIONS
ARE
NOT LIMITED.
&gt;&gt;
YEAH, YOU. PURSUANT TO SENATE
RESOLUTION 437, SECTION FOUR,
THEY ARE NOT LIMITED TO THE
RECORD PROVIDED IN THAT
RESOLUTION. THE SENATE FROM UTAH
HAS APPEALED. IS THAT CORRECT?
&gt;&gt; YES,
I
HAVE. AND -- HAVE
BEEN REQUESTED.
&gt;&gt; WHAT IS THE QUESTION? IS IT
SHALL THE RULING OF THE CHAIR BE
SUSTAINED? IS THAT THE QUESTION?
&gt;&gt; YES, YES.
&gt;&gt;
NO. NO. WHAT MAY I ASK IS THE
RULING OF THE CHAIR? MY POINT
WAS NOT ABOUT WHETHER IT'S
APPROPRIATE FOR THEM
TO MAKE -- MY POINT IS TO STRIKE
THEM BECAUSE THEY ARE FALSE.
&gt;&gt; SENATE
RESOLUTION 47 FOR THE SITUATION
IS CORRECT.
&gt;&gt; THE QUESTION IS WHETHER THE
RESOLUTION 47,
SECTION 4 IS CORRECT. THE
PRIORITIES PRESENTATIONS ARE
NOT LIMITED
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT, THAT IS NOT MY
MOTION. YOU HAVE RULED ON A
MOTION, YOU HAVE RULED ON
SOMETHING THAT
WAS NOT WHAT I MOVED. WHAT I
ASKED WAS, STATEMENTS WERE
ATTRIBUTED TO ME REPEATEDLY. AS
TO WHICH I HAVE PERSONAL
KNOWLEDGE, BECAUSE I AM
THE SOURCE.
I NEVER MADE THOSE STATEMENTS.
ASKED THAT THEY BE STRICKEN.
THIS HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE BASED ON
DEPOSITIONS, WHICH THEY ARE NOT.
IT IS SIMPLY BASED ON THE FACT
THAT I AM THE WITNESS. I AM THE
ONLY WITNESS. THOSE STATEMENTS
ARE NOT TRUE AND ASKED THAT YOU
STRIKE THEM.
&gt;&gt; MR. PRESIDENT.
&gt;&gt;
MR. PRESIDENT?
&gt;&gt; JOE?
&gt;&gt; HE IS ON AN APPEAL.
MR. PRESIDENT?
&gt;&gt; DO YOU BELIEVE THAT
THIS --
IS -- THE YEAS AND DAYS HAVE
BEEN ASKED. THEY HAVE
BEEN REQUESTED.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE LET HIM EXPLAIN, MR.
PRESIDENT. WAS IT FALSE? WHAT
WAS FALSE
ABOUT IT?
&gt;&gt; THESE ARE IN ORDER UNDER
SENATE RESOLUTION -- UNLIMITED
FOR THE RECORD PROVIDED FOR
SECTION ONE OF THE RESOLUTION.
AND THAT HAS
BEEN APPEALED.  THE YEAS AND
NAYS HAS BEEN COUNTED. WE WILL
CALL THE
ROLE.
&gt;&gt; MS. BALDWIN. MR. BRAZILE. MR.
BENNETT.
&gt;&gt; POINT
OF CLARIFICATION. WHAT IS
THE QUESTION?
&gt;&gt; I SUGGEST WE ABSENCE OF
A QUORUM.
&gt;&gt;
MS. BALDWIN?
&gt;&gt; OKAY, SO SENATOR MIKE LEE HAS
OBJECTED TO STATEMENTS MADE BY
THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS,
DESCRIBING A SCENE
IN WHICH HE GOT A PHONE CALL
ALLEGEDLY FROM PRESIDENT TRUMP
WHO WAS ACTUALLY LOOKING FOR
TOMMY TURBERVILLE. SENATOR LEE
SAYS THAT IS NOT
WHAT HAPPENED
, SO HE IS ASKING FOR TO BE
STRICKEN FROM THE RECORD. YOU
CAN SEE THERE WAS SOME CONFUSION
THERE AS SENATOR LEAHY, SENATOR
TEMPEST RESIDING OVER THIS WAS
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO SEEN
AND WHAT THEY ARE ACTUALLY
VOTING ON. TO TRY TO FIGURE THIS
OUT NOW, AND WE WILL TRY TO
MONITOR WHAT'S GOING ON, I WANT
TO BRING IN JAMES HOMAN. WE ARE
GOING TO KEEP WATCHING WHAT'S
HAPPENING ON THE FLOOR AS ALL OF
THE SENATORS GATHER AROUND. YOU
ARE REMINDING US ONLINE THAT
EVEN AS THIS IS DISPUTED,
BECAUSE THERE IS A RECORDING
OF IT, THERE WAS A PHONE CALL ME
LATER BY RUDY GIULIANI TO TOMMY
TURBERVILLE ASKING HIM TO STALL
AND DELAY THE VOTE
GOING FORWARD
&gt;&gt; ULTIMATELY, WE WILL TALK
ABOUT WHAT WE HEARD OVER THE
LAST COUPLE
OF HOURS, BUT THERE WAS NO
DISPUTE THAT RUDY GIULIANI
CALLED THE WRONG NUMBER. MIKE
LEE DID
NOT ELABORATE ON WHAT EXACTLY
HIS OBJECTION IS.
&gt;&gt; YOU DECIDE
RUDY GIULIANI.
WHAT HAS BEEN REPORTED WHAT THE
HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS THAT
TODAY IS THAT DONALD TRUMP AND
THE PRESIDENT PICKED UP THE
PHONE AND CALLED LIKELY. HE
MEANT TO CALL TOMMY TURBERVILLE.
WHAT HE SAID IS THAT WE PASSED
THE PHONE TO SENATOR
TURBERVILLE. WHAT WE HAVE A
RECORDING OF IS RUDY GIULIANI
LATER ON THEN CALLING TOMMY
TURBERVILLE, ALSO TRYING TO
REACH HIM TO HAVE HIM SLOWDOWN
THE CERTIFICATION PROCESS.
&gt;&gt;
EXACTLY. SO THE FIRST PART OF
THAT, THESE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE RELYING
EXTENSIVELY ON PRESS REPORTING.
BECAUSE THERE HAVE NOT BEEN
DEPOSITIONS. THERE WERE HEARINGS
DURING
THE UKRAINE IMPEACHMENT. SO YOU
SAW A LOT TODAY DIFFERENT NEWS
ORGANIZATIONS BEING CITED. THE
WASHINGTON POST WAS BEING
CITED OFF.
THAT DID CALL AND LEAVE A
MESSAGE THAT WAS AIMED FOR
TURBERVILLE AND APPARENTLY IN
COORDINATION WITH
RUDY GIULIANI AT THE TOP OF THE
VOICEMAIL, AS THE PRESIDENT'S
LAWYER. HE SAYS WE NEED YOUR
HELP HOURS AFTER THE
INSTRUCTION. HOURS AFTER THE
CAPITAL HAD
BEEN BREACHED
THE IMPORTANT POINT IS WHY
PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS DOING, WHAT
RUDY GIULIANI WANTED HIS YOU
KNOW CLOSE ADVISORS AND
ATTORNEYS AT THE TIME
WERE DOING RATHER THAN TRYING TO
SCRAMBLE AND STOP THE HORRIBLE
RIOTING PLEASE IN THE CAPITAL
WAS CONTINUE TO FIGHT THE
CERTIFICATION OF ELECTION
RESULTS. RHONDA.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S CORRECT. THAT IS WITH
THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
WANTED TO END THE DAY ON.
SHOWING WHAT TRUMP'S FRAME OF
MIND WAS WHEN HE WAS WATCHING TV
WHEN PEOPLE ASKING HIM TO DO
SOMETHING, THERE WAS A LOT OF
DOCUMENTATION. AND ALSO NETWORK
THAT I INTERVIEWED WITH
REPRESENTATIVES
AND SENATORS THAT WERE TRYING TO
GIVE THE PRESIDENT TO DO
SOMETHING. SO THAT'S WHAT THIS
LAST
PART OF THE PROCEEDINGS HAVE
BEEN. WAS INTERESTING ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENED RIGHT NOW, THAT'S WHY
THERE'S A LITTLE BIT OF
BACK-AND-FORTH AND CONFUSION
THAT AT AN IMPEACHMENT TRIAL,
IT'S DIFFERENT FROM A NORMAL
SENATE
FLOOR PRECEDING. THERE ARE RULES
THAT THEY HAVE TO GO BY. ONE OF
THEM IS THAT NO ONE IS ALLOWED
TO TALK, OTHER THAN THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS AND THE
DEFENSE LAWYERS. ANYTHING THAT
IS SAID TO THE CHAIR.
&gt;&gt; LET'S GO BACK TO
THE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO CALL AND THE
MANAGER FOR A
BRIEF STATEMENT.
&gt;&gt; THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGER
QUICKLY AND ACCURATELY QUOTED
A NEWSPAPER ACCOUNT WHICH THEY
DISTINGUISH SENATOR HAS TAKEN AN
AFFECTION SHE. WE ARE HAPPY TO
WITHDRAW -- ON THE GROUNDS THAT
IT IS, ON THE GROUNDS THAT IT IS
NOT TRUE. AND WE ARE GOING TO
WITHDRAW THIS EVENING. WITHOUT
ANY PREJUDICE, THE ABILITY TO
RESUBMIT IT IF POSSIBLE.
WE CAN DEBATED. THIS IS MUCH ADO
ABOUT NOTHING, BECAUSE IS NOT
CRITICAL IN ANY WAY TO
OUR CASE.
&gt;&gt; SO THE MANAGERS ISSUES
STANDS. MR. LEE HAS WITHDRAWN
HIS REQUEST. WE MAY RELITIGATE
IT TOMORROW IF WE HAVE TO. I
NOW ASK
UNANIMOUS CONSENT, TRIAL
ADJOURNED UNTIL 12:00 NOON
TOMORROW, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 11
AND THIS ALSO CONSTITUTES THE
ADJOURNMENT OF THE SENATE.
&gt;&gt; OBJECTION. SO SENATOR STANDS
THE JURY.
&gt;&gt; THE SENATE STANDS ADJOURNED.
THAT'S IT FOR TODAY, LEAVING A
LITTLE BIT OF CONFUSION AND
CHAOS THEY. I HAD TO POINT OUT
RHONDA IN JAMES, THIS IS LIKE
PROCEDURAL CHAOS. OBVIOUSLY,
SENATOR LEE IS VERY UPSET. BUT
THE WORD CHAOS IS REALLY A WORD
PUT IN CONTEXT BY THE HORRIBLE
IMAGES WE SAW AUTHOR OF THE DAY.
THIS IS LIKE RELATIVE
PROCEDURAL CHAOS.
THIS PROCEDURAL ISSUE. LOST FOR
A MOMENT THERE. OTHER SENATORS
SEEMED LOST IN RESPONSE. RHONDA,
JUST TALK IS AGAIN THROUGH HOW
THIS IS DIFFERENT THAN WHAT THEY
MIGHT NORMALLY BE DOING EVERY
DAY.
&gt;&gt; WRIGHT, AN IMPEACHMENT TRIAL
HAS A DIFFERENT SET OF RULES
THAN ANY OTHER PROCEEDING. SO
THERE ARE DIFFERENT
PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURES THAT
THE SENATORS HAVE TO ABIDE BY.
ONE OF THEM IS THAT
THEY CAN'T STAND UP OR SPEAK.
THEY ARE NOT ALLOWED TO LOOK OR
READ ANYTHING VOLATILE IS GOING
ON. SO THAT WAS A LITTLE BIT
OF A
WILD CARD THAT JUST HAPPEN
THERE. WRECKING PROCEDURALLY,
THE LEADERS IN THE SENATE WERE
NOT SURE WHAT TO DO WITH THAT.
IF THEY COULD LOOK. THEY ARE NOT
ALLOWED TO PICK UP ANY SORT OF
ISSUE, ANY SORT OF MOTION. BRING
UP ANY SORT OF DEBATE DURING
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL. SO I THINK
THAT THAT WAS THE RECORDER THAT
THEY WERE ALL TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT PARLIAMENTARY PROCEDURE ON
HOW TO ADDRESS MIKE LEE'S
COMPLAINED THERE. IT DOES LOOK
LIKE HE WAS A LITTLE BIT HEATED
THAT HIS NAME WAS USED IN SOME
OF THE EVIDENCE THE HOUSE
MANAGERS PUT FORTH TODAY. BUT
OVERALL, THEY HAVE ENOUGH
EVIDENCE AND ENOUGH REPORTING TO
SHOW WHAT TRUMP'S FRAME OF MIND
WAS DURING -- IT WAS
SOMEWHAT RELISHING. THEY
DISCUSSED THAT HE WAS NOT
ENGAGED, NOT REALLY APPEARING TO
CALL THIS OFF ANYTIME SOON. HE
ALSO SAW THE TIMELINE AS SOME
REPRESENTATIVES GOING ON CABLE
NEWS. ASKING THE PRESIDENT TO
CALL THIS OFF.
YOU HAD McCARTHY, WHO IS THE
PUMP -- REPUBLICAN LEADER IN THE
HOUSE. HE WAS AMONG THEM, ASKING
THE PRESIDENT TO CALL US OFF.
THE HOUSE IMPEACHMENT MANAGER
OVERALL HAS TRIED TO ESTABLISH
THAT AFTER THE ATTACK, OR DURING
THE ATTACK, THE PRESIDENT WAS
CHECKED OUT AND DID NOT GIVE ANY
THOUGHT TO
THEIR SAFETY OF THE VICE
PRESIDENT, MIKE PENCE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT, JAMES AND RHONDA,
A LITTLE BIT OF COLOR FROM THE
HILL POOLER, BECAUSE WE DO HAVE
A NUMBER OF REPORTERS THAT COULD
BE IN THAT CHAMBER BECAUSE OF
COVID SAFETY
PRECAUTIONS. BY SAYING THAT AS
THIS INFORMATION WAS GIVEN BY
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, THE
SENATOR LEE WAS SHAKING HIS HEAD
VEHEMENTLY, WRITING DOWN AN
ECONOMIC AND SCRIBBLING THIS IS
NOT WHAT HAPPENED. PASSING THAT
OFF TO DAVID SCHON, ONE OF
PRESIDENT TRUMP'S ATTORNEYS. SO
JAMES, THEY DISPATCHED WITH US
FOR NOW. PUT IT ON THE BACK FOR
THE MOMENT. THEY WILL PICK IT UP
TOMORROW. YOU CAN DEFINITELY SEE
THE FATIGUE SETTING IN I THINK
AMONG THE BODY TAKING
&gt;&gt; IT'S A GROUP OF
OLDER SENATORS.
WHAT WILL BE INTERESTING IN WHAT
I THINK THE LEE KERFUFFLE SPEAKS
TO WAS HOW MANY REPUBLICANS WERE
INVOKED AND CITED. REALLY
FASCINATING TO SEE HOW SOME OF
THEM RESPOND. THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS WERE PRETTY
STRATEGIC ABOUT PICKING AND
CHOOSING WHICH REPUBLICANS THEY
CITED. BUT THERE WERE A LOT OF
HOUSE REPUBLICANS ESPECIALLY
REFERENCED WITH SOMEONE LIKE
MIKE GALLAGHER, THE
REPUBLICAN FROM WISCONSIN WHO
ULTIMATELY VOTED AGAINST
IMPEACHMENT. IT WILL BE
FASCINATING TO SEE IN THE COMING
HOURS HOW THEY RESPOND TO BEING
CITED. IT WILL ALSO BE
INTERESTING TO SEE HOW MIKE
PENCE RESPONSE IF
AT ALL. I WOULD EXPECT TO NOT
HEAR FROM HIM AT ALL. IT IS
REALLY REMARKABLE, SOME OF THE
MOST DAMNING EVIDENCE AGAINST
TRUMP FROM THIS LAST STRETCH OF
TODAY'S PRESENTATION HAD TO DO
WITH PENS BEING IN THE CAPITAL.
PENS TRYING TO GET THE NATIONAL
GUARD TO COME, TRUMP
BEING DISENGAGED. AND TRUMP NOT
CALLING PENS, NOT CHECKING ON
HIS OWN VICE PRESIDENT,
CONTINUING TO ATTACK HIM
ON TWITTER. YOU HAVE TO WONDER
WHAT HE IS THINKING SURELY, HE
IS WATCHING THIS TRIAL. AND YOU
KNOW, HE IS KIND OF POTENTIALLY
A KEY
WITNESS HERE. BUT WE HAVE NOT
REALLY HEARD HIM. WE SAW HIM
OBVIOUSLY ON JANUARY 6. BUT
THERE ARE SEVERAL PEOPLE LIKE
THAT WHO YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY, WE
LOVE TO KNOW WHAT THEY ARE
THINKING AS THIS IS ALL PLAYING
ON.
&gt;&gt; RHONDA, THE MESSAGES THAT
REPUBLICANS ARE TRYING TO SEND
TO THE RIOTERS, TO PRESIDENT
TRUMP THROUGH FOX NEWS, THROUGH
MAKING THEIR OWN STATEMENTS,
THROUGH SENDING OUT THEIR OWN
TWEETS REALLY DO SPEAK TO THE
VACUUM THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP WAS
LEAVING THAT AFTERNOON BY NOT
COMING OUT AND FIRMLY CONDEMNING
WHAT WAS HAPPENING.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT. AND THEY WERE
ABLE TO
SHOW THAT IT WAS QUITE CERTAIN
THAT IT TOOK SO LONG FOR HIM TO
MAKE A STATEMENT THAT HE HAD
MADE AROUND 4:00. THEY ALSO
POINTED OUT THAT THERE'S NO
EVIDENCE THAT HE WAS INVOLVED AT
ALL IN THE DECISION TO BRING THE
NATIONAL GUARD IN. SO THE HOUSE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS, THEY
WANTED THE LAST PART OF THIS DAY
TO REALLY LET EVERYONE KNOW THAT
THE PRESIDENT IN THE BEGINNING,
HIS WORDS LED TO THE ATTACK. THE
ATTACK HAPPENED AND HE DID NOT
SEEM TO WANT TO CALL IT OFF FOR
SOME TIME AND SEEM TO BE PUSHED
BY FELLOW REPUBLICANS AND AIDES
WHO SAID YOU'VE GOT TO DO
SOMETHING AND HE PUT OUT THE
VIDEO OF COURSE. TODAY ALSO SHOW
THE CONTRADICTION OF THAT VIDEO,
OF HIM SAYING IT WAS AN UNFAIR
ELECTION. GO HOME, WE LOVE YOU.
AND HE ALSO TWEETED LATER ON
THAT THIS IS WHAT HAPPENS WHEN A
LAWFUL ELECTION IS THROWN OUT. A
LANDSLIDE ELECTION IS THROWN
OUT. AND OF COURSE, THAT IS
MISINFORMATION AND NOT TRUE. IT
WAS NOT A LANDSLIDE ON
HIS END. BUT THEY SHOW THIS
WHOLE TIMELINE OF HOW HE TREATED
THE INSURRECTION TO SORT OF
BOLSTER THEIR WHOLE CASE THAT HE
WAS A PART OF IT. HE WAS NOT
JUST A BYSTANDER. THIS JUST KIND
OF AUTOMATICALLY HAPPENED IN
THESE PASSIONATE SUPPORTERS OF
HIS GOT TO THE CAPITAL. THEY
WANTED TO SHOW THE WHOLE
TIMELINE AND HOW INVOLVED HE
WAS.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE BEEN WATCHING THE
SENATORS LEAVE THE FAMILIAR SITE
ANY OF THE JOURNALISTS. THEY
MOVE FAST, RON AND JAMES. WHAT
DID YOU CALL THEM? A JERROD
TUCKER C? THEY SHOULD GET OUT OF
THERE FAST. CATCH
THEIR RIGHTS. THEY'VE GOT
ANOTHER BIG DAY TOMORROW. I DO
WANT TO PAUSE FOR A MOMENT AND
TALK ABOUT WHAT IS LEFT FOR THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS TO DO. SO
JAMES, CAN STEP BACK AND THE
PICTURE, GO OVER WHAT'S NEXT
PRESUMABLY FOR
THEM TOMORROW.
&gt;&gt; RAY. SO WE DID GET KIND OF
THE FULL SWEEP. THE HOUSE
MANAGERS HAVE NOW USED HALF OF
THEIR TIME. THEY WERE ALLOTTED
16 HOURS. THE HAVE USED EIGHT OF
THOSE HOURS. A MORE HOURS
TOMORROW. WE HAVE NOW SEEN THE
WHOLE RUN-UP TO JANUARY 6 AND
KIND OF WHAT WAS HAPPENING
DURING
THE PRIOR. I ASSUME THAT WE WILL
SEE MORE ON WHAT FOLLOWED IN THE
IMMEDIATE AFTERMATH
OF THAT AND WE WILL GO BACK AND
UNPACK AND SORT OF ADD MORE MEAT
TO THE BONES ON VARIOUS THINGS
RELATED TO THE ACTUAL SINGLE
ARTICLE OF IMPEACHMENT, WHICH IS
IN SIMON. I EXPECT THAT WE WILL
HEAR THE TERM DERELICTION OF
DUTY A LOT
MORE TOMORROW. WE HAVE A LITTLE
TEASE OF SOME OF THE EVIDENCE. I
THINK WE CAN EXPECT MORE. THEY
SHOW THE VIDEO OF THE Q AND ON
SCHAUMANN. SAW JOAQUIN -- FROM
TEXAS JOKING. I'M SURE YOU HAVE
SEEN HIM. HE WAS THE ONE THAT
WAS STANDING ON THE SENATE
ROSTER AND MOVING FROM THE DC
JAIL TO THE VIRGINIA JAIL
BECAUSE HE WILL ONLY EAT ORGANIC
FOOD. BUT HE IS ON VIDEO THERE
SAYING WE ARE LEAVING NOW
BECAUSE TRUMP TOLD US TO. HE
SAID WE WON
THE DAY. AND WE SENT A MESSAGE
TO MIKE PENCE AND TO CONGRESS
AND WE STOPPED THE CERTIFICATION
FROM HAPPENING FOR NOW. AND
TRUMP IS GOING TO TELL US TO GO
HOME. THAT WAS PARTICULARLY
COMPELLING BECAUSE IT SHOWS THAT
THE MEMBERS OF THE MOB, AT LEAST
SOME OF THEM ARE DIRECTLY
LISTENING TO TRUMP. THEY THOUGHT
THAT THEY WERE
THERE AT TRUMP'S BEHEST AND ON
HIS BEHALF. AND I THINK
DEMOCRATS PLAN TO UNPACK THAT
THE MORE TOMORROW. TO
TIE TRUMP TO THE ACTUAL
INSURRECTION. BECAUSE WE KNOW
THAT THE DEFENSE STRATEGY IS
GOING
TO BE TO DECOUPLE TRUMP FROM THE
INSURRECTION IS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE. SO THEY WENT TO CEMENT
THOSE TIES. SO WE CAN EXPECT TO
SEE A LOT MORE VIDEO LIKE WHAT
WE
SAW TODAY.
COMMENTING WHAT WAS ON
SOCIAL MEDIA.
BROADCASTING IT LIVE TO EVERYONE
WATCHING.
&gt;&gt; THERE'S A LOT OF DETAIL TO
COVER. IN THOSE HOURS. IT WAS A
GOOD REMINDER OF
THE PRESENTATION
HAND-TO-HAND COMBAT WITH THE USE
RIOTERS. LITERALLY THREE HOURS
AFTER THE CAPITAL WAS FIRST
BREACHED. SOME OF THE HORRIFIC
SCENES, THE GHASTLY IMAGES
WERE LIKE
THREE -- AS WE REMEMBER AND
EVERYONE
WAS WATCHING
IT HOURS AFTER THE BREACH
ESSENTIALLY. SO I THINK YOU WILL
SEE SOME MORE OF
THOSE HOURS CONTINUING
INDECISION OF THE WHITE HOUSE.
PAST -- HAVING
TO INTERVENE.
&gt;&gt; LET'S WATCH THE NEW EVIDENCE
PRESENTED TODAY. HERE IS
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS STACY PARR
SKIN REINFORCING THE
THREAT ON DONALD TRUMP'S OWN
VICE PRESIDENT. THIS WAS THE
FOOTAGES MIKE PENCE AND JUST
WHAT HE EXPERIENCED THAT DAY.
&gt;&gt; VICE PRESIDENT PENCE WAS
STILL IN
THE ROOM
THIS NEXT SECURITY VIDEO SHOWS
THAT EVACUATION. HIS MOVEMENTS
ARE DEPICTED BY THE ORANGE DOT
IN OUR MODEL. THE RED AND BLUE
DOTS REPRESENT THE LOCATION
WHERE OFFICE AND -- OFFICER
GOODMAN LED THE CHAMBER JUST
MOMENTS AGO? YOU CAN SEE VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE AND HIS FAMILY
QUICKLY MOVE DOWN
THE STAIRS?
THE MOB ARE LOOKING FOR VICE
PRESIDENT PENCE BECAUSE OF HIS
PATRIOTISM. BECAUSE THE
VICE PRESIDENT
HE OVERTURNED REAL
EXPERIENCE WITH. BUT IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS STACY POSTURE
EARLIER TODAY. WE CAN ONLY
SPECULATE ON THE FUTURE
RELATIONSHIP OF DONALD TRUMP AND
MIKE PENCE BUT IT IS
JUST SHOCKING TO THINK ABOUT THE
VICE PRESIDENT BEING TRAPPED IN
THE CAPITAL WITH HIS FAMILY. AND
THE PRESIDENT NOT CALLING HIM,
CHECKING UP
ON HER.
YOU ARE ESSENTIALLY DOING
NOTHING TO SAVE THE VICE
PRESIDENT WHO WAS UNDER THREAT
IN THE GROUP
MOMENT.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT, AND EVEN MIKE
PENCE'S FAMILY WAS HERE. HIS
WIFE, HIS DAUGHTER, BUT ALSO HIS
BROTHER IS A MEMBER OF CONGRESS.
HE HAD A LOT OF HIS IMMEDIATE
FAMILY IN THIS CONGRESS WHO WERE
IN DAVE -- GRAVE DANGER. I THINK
THE REASON WE HEARD THEM BRING
UP MIKE PENCE OFTEN IS BECAUSE
A, HE IS A PART OF THE PARTY OF
THE REPUBLICAN SENATORS THAT THE
MANAGERS TRIED TO APPEAL TO. WE
SEE DONALD TRUMP'S WORDS LEADING
UP TO THE SIXTH WHEN HE GIVES
THAT SPEECH AND TALKS ABOUT
PENS. WE ARE COUNTING
ON YOU. EVEN SAYING BEFORE WHEN
HE WAS IN GEORGIA, HE
SAID THAT WE SET OUR EYES ON
MIKE PENCE TO DO THE RIGHT THING
FOR US AND IF HE DOESN'T, NOT
GOING TO LIKE HIM VERY MUCH.
THIS IS PART OF THE STRATEGY
THAT THEY WANT TO USE. DONALD
TRUMP'S WORDS REALLY HAVING AN
IMPACT ON THE DEFENSE THAT
HAPPENED HERE AT
THE CAPITAL.
SHOWING ALL OF THE RHETORIC
ABOUT PENS AND SEEING PENS IN
THE TYPE OF DANGER WHERE THE
CROWD IS CHANTING HANG MIKE
PENCE. THEY HAVE THE GALLOWS
CONSTRUCTED ON THE
CAPITAL LAWN. MANY PEOPLE WERE
IDENTIFYING PENS AS THE CORE
PERSON THEY WERE GOING AFTER
BECAUSE DONALD TRUMP HAVE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT IT FOR
SO LONG.
&gt;&gt; SO THE OTHER PERSON WE HAVE
HEARD A LOT
ABOUT TODAY
THE CASE BEING LAID OUT WAS
ABOUT SPEAKER PELOSI. ALL
LAWMAKERS WERE IN DANGER. WE SAW
THAT THROUGHOUT THE
PRESENTATION. SPEAKER PELOSI WAS
ALSO A SUBJECT OF VITRIOL,
HATRED AND ANGER. STORMING THE
CAPITAL. THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS MADE A DIRECT LINE
BETWEEN PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
NAME-CALLING AND RHETORIC
AGAINST HER TO WERE DEVELOPED
TODAY ON JANUARY
6.
&gt;&gt;
&gt;&gt; SPEAKER PELOSI CHOSE THESE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS. THE
RABBIT, BY THE SPEAKER TO AND
THEY KNOW HER WELL. AND THEY ARE
ALL ON THE
HOUSE SIDE. AND CLEARLY, THEY
WERE USING THE NICKNAME THE
TRUMP HAD FOR HER BUT
IT WAS A HORROR
MOVIE WATCHING THEM SAY WE ARE
COMING FOR YOU NANCY. TO SEE
THAT THEY ACTUALLY DID BREECH
HER OFFICE. WE LEARNED TODAY
THAT
HE HAD AN INCREDIBLY POWERFUL
STUN GUN THAT COULD HAVE BEEN
INCAPACITATED. WE
HAD THE AUDIO THAT WAS
ORIGINALLY OBTAINED BY THE
WASHINGTON POST COLLEAGUES OF
THE STAFFER AND ONE OF PELOSI'S
STAFFERS. LISTENING TO PEOPLE
BANG ON THE DOOR
FOR HOURS. THERE'S NO QUESTION
THAT WE ALSO LEARNED TODAY THAT
PELOSI WAS EVACUATED TO A REMOTE
LOCATION TAKEN AWAY FROM
THE CAPITAL. PELOSI WAS CLEARLY
ONE OF
THE TARGETS. TRUMP MADE NO
SECRET OF THAT. AND ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT'S
BEEN INTERESTING AS WE LEARN
MORE ABOUT THE 200 POSTMAN
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN CHARGED IS HOW
MANY OF THEM HAVE HISTORIES OF
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, OF ABUSING
WOMEN,
OF OTHERWISE CRIMINALLY CHARGED
MISOGYNY. THAT IS NOT SALLY'S
SURPRISE. VERY OFTEN, WHEN THERE
ARE SHOOTERS, THAT IS THE
BIGGEST , THE BIGGEST
RED FLAG.
LOOKING FOR BLOODLUST FOR NANCY
PELOSI. THEY WERE JUST VERY
VIOLENT, ENRAGED. TRUMP
SUPPORTERS.
&gt;&gt; JAMES, IT HAS
BEEN REPEATED OVER AND OVER BY
PEOPLE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
SAFETY THAT THAT SORT OF
NAME-CALLING AND DEHUMANIZING
AND ANGRY RHETORIC WILL
EVENTUALLY LEAD TO VIOLENCE OR
ATTEMPTS AT VIOLENCE. THIS IS
ONLY ONE OF
THE INCIDENTS WHERE IT HAS. I
WENT TO PLAY A CLIP FROM THAT
AFTERNOON, JANUARY 6. JAMES WAS
JUST TALKING ABOUT THIS. THIS
IS FROM JUST OUTSIDE THE DOORS
THAT LEAD TO SPEAKER PELOSI'S
SUITE AT THE CAPITAL. THIS IS
FROM TIMELINE OF EVENTS THAT
WERE PUT TOGETHER BY WASHINGTON
POST VISUAL FORENSICS TEAM.
WATCH THIS.
&gt;&gt; HOUSE SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI'S
SUITE. MEMBERS OF THE STAFF HIDE
UNDER A TABLE IN A
CONFERENCE ROOM.
&gt;&gt; THEY ARE POUNDING ON DOORS,
TRYING TO
FIND HER.
&gt;&gt; WRITERS GATHER NEAR THE HOUSE
CHAMBER ENTRANCE.
&gt;&gt; WELL, WE CAME
THIS FAR, WHAT YOU SAY?
&gt;&gt; DRAG THEM OUT!
&gt;&gt; DRAG THEM OUT AND HANG THEM
OUT? WE SAW TODAY, RHONDA,
FOOTAGE OF SOME OF THESE
ATTACKERS GOING DOWN THE HALL,
BRINGING IN THE DOOR OF SPEAKER
PELOSI'S OFFICE AND ENCOUNTERING
A SECOND DOOR THAT HAD BEEN
CLOSED AND BARRICADED IF I AM
CALLING CORRECTLY. THEY KEPT
MOVING ON, BUT IT WAS JUST SO
CHILLING TO THINK ABOUT THE
STAFFERS AND PEOPLE WHO WERE ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THESE DOORS AS
THE ATTACKERS WENT DOWN HALLS
LIKE THAT.
&gt;&gt; THAT'S RIGHT, WE DO KNOW THAT
SHE WAS TAKEN OFF SITE COME OFF
THE COMPLEX COMPLETELY, FOR HER
STAFF WAS STILL VERY VULNERABLE
IN MANY OF THEM ARE VERY YOUNG.
SPEAKING TO A STAFFER A FEW DAYS
AGO ABOUT
THEIR EXPERIENCE
&gt;&gt;&gt; IT'S APPARENT THAT
MEMBERS OF THE MOB MAY HAVE
HARMED ANYONE ASSOCIATED WITH
HOUSE SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI. WE
FOUND OUT THAT ONE OF THE
ORGANIZERS OF THE MILITIA SAID
THAT THEY WANTED TO KILL ANYONE
THEY GOT THEIR HANDS ON.
THERE WAS CONCERN FOR ANYONE WHO
MAY HAVE BEEN IN THE WRONG PLACE
AT THE WRONG TIME.
&gt;&gt; WE WERE TO ABOUT WHAT TO
EXPECT FOR TOMORROW. WHAT YOU
SEE IS THE JOB LEFT TO DO BEFORE
WE GET TO THE NEXT PHASE OF THE
TRIAL WHICH WILL BE THE DEFENSE
TEAM TAKING CENTRAL STAGE
.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS WILL EXPAND ON WHAT
THEY TALKED ABOUT. I THINK IT
WILL BE ONE OF THE LAST TIMES
THAT THEY CAN SPEAK IN THE
TRIAL. THE WHAT HAPPENS IS IT
WILL MOVE ON TO TRUMP'S DEFENSE
TEAM. AND THEN THERE WILL BE
FOUR HOURS WHERE THEY WILL BE
ABLE TO WRITE THEIR QUESTIONS
FOR BOTH SIDES. THIS WILL BE AN
IMPORTANT DAY BECAUSE THEY WILL
BUILD ON WHAT THEY ESTABLISH
TODAY. THERE MAY BE SOME
REPETITION BUT OVERALL THEY WANT
TO CONTINUE TO ESTABLISH THAT
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP'S WORDS
THAT LED TO THE EVENTS.
EVEN THOUGH WE SAW A LOT OF NEW
SECURITY FOOTAGE MATERIAL. ONE
OF THE KEY PARTS OF THIS DAY WAS
EARLIER IN THE MORNING. WHEN
THEY LOOKED AT THE TIMELINE OF
TRUMPS RHETORIC REGARDING THE
ELECTION AND HOW THAT BUILT INTO
JANUARYT 6th. THIS PROVES THAT
IT WAS AN ISOLATED OR RANDOM. IT
WAS SOMETHING HE HAD TALKED
ABOUT . AND THOSE WHO PREPARED
CAME PREPARED TO DO HARM.
&gt;&gt; LET'S LISTEN TO THE LEAD AND
PEACH MEANT MANAGER RASK IN
ILLUSTRATING HIS POINT EARLIER
TODAY.
&gt;&gt; MOST AMERICANS HAVE DISMISSED
THE FIRST AMENDMENT RHETORIC BY
REFERRING TO JUSTICE HOLMES
PHRASE THAT YOU CAN'T SHOUT FIRE
IN A
CROWDED THEATER. IT DOESN'T
BEGIN TO CAPTURE HOW OFF-BASE
THE ARGUMENT IS. THIS IS WORSE
THAN SOMEONE WHO SHOUTS FIRE IN
A CROWDED THEATER. THIS IS A
CASE WHERE THE TOP DOWN FIRE
CHIEF WHO IS PAID TO PUT OUT
FIRES
SINCE MOB NOT TO YELL FIRE, BUT
TO SET THE THEATER ON FIRE. AND
WHEN THE FIRE ALARMS GO OFF IN
THE CALL STARTED SLIDING INTO
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT ASKING FOR
HELP. DOES NOTHING BUT SIT BACK,
ENCOURAGE THE MOB TO CONTINUE
THE RAMPAGE AND WATCH AS THE
FIRE SPREADS ON TV. WITH GLEE
AND DELIGHT.
&gt;&gt; THAT WAS LEAD IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS RASKIN.  AS CONGRESSMAN
RASKIN MADE THAT ANALOGY.  THEY
THROUGHOUT THE DAY TRIED TO SHOW
AN LAYOUT THAT EXACT POINT THAT
TRUMP WAS THAT A FIRE CHIEF THE
DID INSIDE THE MOB
AND ENCOURAGE THEM TO BURN. BUT
THAT WAS A TOUCHDOWN ANALOGY.
AND IT DID SET THE TONE AND LAY
THE GROUNDWORK.
THE CASE WOULD BE VERY DIFFERENT
HAD TRUMP IMMEDIATELY
SAID AS SOON AS THE CAPITAL WAS
BREACHED TO GET OUT THIS IS
TOTALLY UNACCEPTABLE. WE ARE
SENDING IN THE NATIONAL GUARD.
THE CULMINATION EVEN MONTHS
BEFORE THE ELECTION WHEN
TRUMP REFUSED TO COMMIT TO A
PEACEFUL TRANSFER OF POWER. HIS
DECLARATION THAT HE COULD NOT
POSSIBLY LOSE. CREATED THIS
METAPHORICAL PICTURE OF A FIRE
CHIEF THAT WAS PUTTING DOWN ALL
THIS KINDLING. AND THEN THE
LIGHTING THE MATCH AND NOT GOING
TO SEND HELP IS HIS OWN PEOPLE
WERE STARTING THE FIRE. THIS WAS
AN ANALOGY THAT CAPTURES THE
ARGUMENT THAT THEY WERE TRYING
TO LAY OUT.
&gt;&gt; LET'S TALK ABOUT THE ROLES OF
THE VARIOUS IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
TODAY AND HOW THEY AS A TEAM HAD
A COHESIVE ARGUMENT AND THE
STRATEGY WHICH IS SO DIFFERENT
FROM WHAT WE SAW YESTERDAY.
TRUMPS LAWYERS SEEM LIKE THEY
CAME FROM A DIFFERENT UNIVERSE.
&gt;&gt; I THINK YOU'RE SEEING THE
LEVEL OF PREPARATION THAT HAS
GONE INTO THE PROSECUTION'S
CASE. THE IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS,
THERE ARE NINE OF THEM AND THEY
WERE LED BY
MANAGER RASKIN.  ONE OF THE
FIRST PEOPLE WE HEARD FROM WAS
HOUSE MEMBER FROM COLORADO THE
YOUNGEST IMPEACHMENT MANAGER
NEGUSE. HE WAS UTILIZED
YESTERDAY AS WELL. AND A LOT OF
PEOPLE  PROBABLY SAW AND HEARD
FROM HIM FOR THE FIRST TIME. AND
THAT SHOWS THAT SOMETHING LIKE
THIS FOR THE WHOLE NATION'S
WATCHING, THIS COULD ELEVATE THE
CAREERS OF MANY HOUSE MEMBERS
WHO WANT TO BE LEADERS MONDAY.
WE ALSO HEARD FROM MADELEINE
DEAN FROM PENNSYLVANIA. SHE MADE
MENTION AND I
PREVIEW DO THIS YESTERDAY. SHE'S
A LAWYER BY TRADE BUT HAS SPENT
A LOT OF HER CAREER AS AN
ENGLISH PROFESSOR. SHE TALKED
ABOUT HOW THAT MAY INFORM HER
MORE BECAUSE SHE CAN SHOW YOU
HOW WORDS MATTER
.
&gt;&gt; SHE WAS TASKED WITH GIVING A
DISSECTION OF TRUMPS WORDS AND
HOW THEY CHEERED IT
CERTAIN POINTS. AND SHE WAS
BREAKING DOWN HOW THOSE LED TO
THE LATER EVENTS. WE HAVE HEARD
FROM ALL OF THEM. THERE ARE A
FEW OTHERS THAT WE DID NOT HEAR
FROM.
DIANA
DEGETTE WAS A CIVIL RIGHTS
ATTORNEY PRIOR. THAT IS THE ROLE
THAT THEY IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS
PLAY. THEY ARE THE PROSECUTION
TEAM AND WE WILL HEAR FROM
TRUMPS DEFENSE TEAM LATER THIS
WEEK. BUT LET'S PLAY A CLIP FROM
CONGRESSMAN DEAN. THIS WAS PART
OF HER ARGUMENT THAT REALLY GOT
PERSONAL. IT WAS AN EMOTIONAL
REMINDER TO ALL THE MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS WHAT IT FELT LIKE TO BE
AT THE CAPITAL ON THAT DAY.
&gt;&gt; SOMEBODY SHOUTED OUT:, LIE
DOWN, READY YOUR GAS MASK.
SHORTLY AFTER THERE WAS
TERRIFYING BANGING ON THE
CHAMBER DOORS. AND I WILL NEVER
FORGET THAT SOUND. SHOUTS AND
PANICKED CALLS TO MY HUSBAND AND
SONS. INSTRUCTIONS TO FLEE AND
THE CONSTANT WORRY THAT THE
GAS MASK WOULD FILTER THE AIR.
THE CHAMBER OF THE UNITED STATES
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES TURNED
TO CHAOS. FOR DONALD TRUMP IT
WAS A DIFFERENT DAY.! WHAT A
TRANSITION TO GO FROM HER
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE TO WHAT THE
PRESIDENT WAS GOING THROUGH THAT
DAY.
&gt;&gt; THAT HIS RIGHT. AND THAT'S
SOMETHING WE HAVE SEEN IN THE
LAST FEW DAYS. THE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS ARE NOT SHYING AWAY
FROM HOW EMOTIONAL THEY FELT
THAT DAY THEY ARE TALKING ABOUT
THEIR OWN
PERSONAL EXPERIENCES AND WHAT
STOOD OUT TO THEM AND WHAT THEY
WENT THROUGH. WE HAVE SEEN SOME
EMOTION FROM ALL OF THEM. AND
THAT UNDERSCORES THE POINT THAT
THEY ARE HUMAN
. IT SHOULD NOT BE
UNDERESTIMATED HOW TRAUMATIC THE
DAY IS FOR MANY PEOPLE ON THE
HILL
. IT MAY FEEL A LITTLE BIT
DISTANT,
MAYBE A MONTH BUT IS NOT A LONG
TIME. THESE ARE PEOPLE WHO CAME
RIGHT BACK
TO THE FLOOR TO CONTINUE THE
BUSINESS THAT THEY WERE
THEREFORE TO CERTIFY THE
ELECTORIAL COLLEGE VOTES. THEY
WENT RIGHT BACK TO WORK AND THEY
BEEN COMING BACK EACH WEEK GOING
THROUGH ADDITIONAL SECURITY
MEASURES ON THE HILL. THERE ARE
STILL BROKEN WINDOWS, YOU CAN
SEE THE REPAIR THAT HAS HAPPENED
OVER THE LAST FEW WEEKS.
THESE ARE THE PHYSICAL REMINDERS
THAT EACH MEMBER OF CONGRESS AND
THE PEOPLE WHO INHABIT THE
BUILDINGS HAVE TO CONFRONT THESE
A DAILY EVEN THOUGH THEY ARE
STILL WORKING THROUGH THE TRAUMA
OF THAT DAY. LEASE ON THE HOUSE
SIDE WE HAVE SEEN THE SPEAKER OF
THE HOUSE OFFER COUNSELING
RESOURCES.
SHE'S ALSO ASKING
REPRESENTATIVES TO SCHEDULE TIME
OR THEY CAN HAVE A ONE ON TIME
WITH THE CAMERA AND TALK THROUGH
THE EVENTS OF JANUARY 6th.  SHE
SAID THAT AS PART OF HISTORY BUT
SHE WANTED TO BE PART OF THEIR
HEALING. THEY ARE DOING THAT
WHILE WORKING ON AN IMPEACHMENT
TRIAL. THE THE A
OTHER BIG ITEMS INCLUDING THE
COVID-19 PACKAGE. HOPING TO
BRING THAT TO THE FLOOR AS SOON
AS THE IMPEACHMENT TRIAL WRAPS
UP. BUT RHONDA ONE OF THE PEOPLE
WHO DELIVERED A POWERFUL
ARGUMENT WAS DELEGATE PLASKETT.
PEOPLE WHO ARE RESIDENTS OF
WASHINGTON, D.C. KNOW THIS
EXPERIENCE WELL. PEOPLE THAT
HAVE THAT REPRESENTATION THAT IS
NOT EQUAL. LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
POWERFUL ROLE THAT SHE IS IN
DESPITE HER STATUS AS A DELEGATE
?
&gt;&gt; SHE IS A
PROSECUTOR SHE HAS THAT
BACKGROUND THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT SHE TOLD HOUSE SPEAKER
NANCY PELOSI. SHE WROTE A LETTER
SAYING THAT SHE WANTED TO BE
CONSIDERED AS ONE OF THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS BECAUSE SHE
HAD THE BACKGROUND AS A
PROSECUTOR. AND POINTED OUT THAT
BLACK WOMEN NEEDED TO BE PART OF
THE PROCEEDINGS
IN A VERY PUBLIC WAY. GIVEN THAT
THEY VOTE AT HIGH LEVELS AND ARE
ENGAGED POLITICALLY. SHE WANTED
THAT TO BE SHOWCASED. AND IN THE
END HOUSE SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI
DID NOT GO WITH HER. BUT I
BELIEVE THAT
THIS LED TO HER BEING UTILIZE
THIS TIME AROUND. SHE ALSO
WORKED FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF
JUSTICE DURING THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION AND WAS A
REPUBLICAN BEFORE SHE TURNED
DEMOCRAT IN 2008. SHE HAS A LOT
OF LEGAL EXPERIENCE. WE HEARD
HER TALK ABOUT HOW SHE WAS A
STAFFER ON THE HILL DURING THE
9/11 AND HOW THAT IMPACTED HER.
SHE'S HAD A BIT OF A HISTORY ON
THE HILL EVEN THOUGH SHE IS IN
AT LARGE
MEMBER FROM THE VIRGIN ISLANDS
THAT DOES NOT HAVE THE SAME
VOTING RIGHTS AS THE OTHER
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS. SHE IS
BECOMING A NAME THAT PEOPLE ARE
FAMILIAR WITH BECAUSE SHE HAS
BEEN GIVEN A LOT OF TIME TO BE
PART OF THE ARGUMENTS THAT THE
IMPEACHMENT MANAGERS ARE MAKING.
&gt;&gt; IT'S INCREDIBLE THAT SHE WAS
NOT ABLE TO VOTE TO IMPEACH
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP BUT NOW
SHE'S PART OF THE TEAM IN MAKING
ARGUMENTS. GIVEN SUCH AN
IMPORTANT ROLE TODAY IN THIS
PROCESS BY HOUSE IMPEACHMENT
MANAGERS.
ONE THING TO REMARK ON EVEN
THOUGH WE'VE HEARD EMOTIONAL
MOMENTS FROM MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
AS THEY DESCRIBED THEIR PERSONAL
EXPERIENCE. THEY HAVE KEPT THE
TONES SO MODERATED
. AND THEY'VE KEPT THEIR REMARKS
ASSISTING. THEY'VE RELIED ON THE
FOOTAGE AND AUDIO AND THE SOCIAL
MEDIA CLIPS
TO KICK UP THAT EMOTIONAL LEVEL.
RATHER THAN YELLING.
MIKE LEE WAS THE MOST EMOTIONAL
PERSON WE SAW ON THE FLOOR OF
THE SENATE. AND HE WAS EVEN
TALKING ABOUT THE ATTACKS ON
CAPITOL POLICE.
&gt;&gt; BUT THAT'S SUCH A SMART
OBSERVATION.
IF MIKE LEE HAD BEEN NEARLY AS
WORKED UP AS A MITT ROMNEY, THE
HOUSE HAS A REPRESENTATION FOR
BEING FIRED UP. AND
RASKIN IS KNOWN TO GIVE LOUD
SPEECHES GOING BACK TO HIS DAYS
IN THE MARYLAND STATE
LEGISLATURE.
THEY LET THE AUDIO VISUALS SPEAK
FOR THEMSELVES. I'M GLAD WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THIS DELEGATE. SHE
SAID THAT JANUARY 6th REMINDED
HER OF THE SEPTEMBER  11.
YOU GOT THAT FEELING FROM THE
AUDIO AND VIDEO.
LISTENING TO THE RADIO
TRANSMISSIONS WITH THE
FIREFIGHTERS AND POLICE OFFICERS
GOING INTO TWIN TOWERS. AND
FIRST RESPONDERS SAYING 1013.
WHICH IS WHAT WE HEARD FROM A
LOCAL WASHINGTON, D.C. POLICE
OFFICER WHO WENT TO THE CAPITAL.
AND THEIR FLANK WAS BREACHED.
AND HE WAS RADIOING AND CALLING
FOR BACKUP. SAYING THAT OFFICERS
WERE UNDER DURESS. AND NOTHING
THAT THE HOUSE MANAGER COULD SAY
WOULD EQUATE WITH THE
VISCERAL FEELING OF THAT OFFICER
AND THE FEAR IN HIS VOICE AS HE
WAS BEING ATTACKED
. THERE WAS NO SOUND,
SURVEILLANCE CAMERAS DO NOT HAVE
AUDIO. IT WAS QUIET, AND IT WAS
SURREAL WATCHING THAT WINDOW
GLASS
BEING BROKEN. THERE WAS NO SOUND
AND YOU COULD SEE PEOPLE
CLIMBING THROUGH THE GLASS. AND
PEOPLE OPENING THE DOOR. AND THE
MANAGERS JUXTAPOSE THE VIDEOS
WITH THE LOUD NOISY VIDEOS OF
PEOPLE SCREAMING PROFANITY AND
TALKING ABOUT KILLING HOUSE
SPEAKER NANCY PELOSI. THAT MADE
THE NOISE IN US ALL THE MORE
HAUNTING AND JARRING. SO THAT
OFFICERS DID HAVE BODYCAMS AND
RADIOS AND WERE PLEADING FOR
HELP IT WAS SO STARK. MORE SO
THAN WHAT ANYONE COULD'VE SAID
IN A SPEECH.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THIS
LONG DAY. AND WE WILL BE BACK TO
DO IT AGAIN TOMORROW. GET SOME
REST AND I WILL SEE YOU AGAIN
SOON. THANK YOU TO ALL OF OUR
VIEWERS FOR WATCHING. IT HAS
BEEN A DISTURBING DAY
.  TO GO OVER WHAT HAPPENED ON
JANUARY 6th. IT'S BEEN AN
IMPORTANT DAY IN AMERICAN
POLITICS TO DOCUMENT AND COVER .
CONGRESS WAS ABLE TO RESUME THE
WORK TO CERTIFY THE ELECTION AND
WE KEPT REPORTING AND WE WERE
ABLE TO DO THAT WORK THANKS TO
YOUR SUPPORT. WE HAVE A SPECIAL
SUBSCRIPTION OFFER FOR OUR
VIEWERS OF THE WASHINGTON POST
LIVE BROADCAST. AND YOU CAN FIND
THAT@WASHINGTONPOST.COM
.
FOR SOMEONE WHO LOVES TO READ
THE NEWS. THANK YOU FOR
SUBSCRIBING. WE WILL BE RIGHT
BACK. TOMORROW MORNING AT 11:00
A.M. AS WE COVER THE SECOND
IMPEACHMENT TRIAL OF
DONALD TRUMP. I AM LIBBY CASEY.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.